Unknown Speaker  00:00
You were when you mentioned earlier you were taking songs. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  00:02
What's your major? advertising?

Unknown Speaker  00:06
Okay, yeah. So nothing law related.

Unknown Speaker  00:10
Nothing our them related. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  00:15
So we're here interviewing participant number 15. And starting with the first question is, before today, before coming into this, how have you ever felt if at all crime analyses has ever directly impacted you before?

Unknown Speaker  00:30
I feel like it maybe not directly impacted me. But just like being of a mixed race, I see what people around me just in the system, and I feel like wrongly convicted and stuff like that. So I guess not anything directly with me, but just been exposed to it. You just kind of see it around. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  00:49
instead, okay. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  00:51
Okay.

Unknown Speaker  00:55
Like wrongful convictions?

Unknown Speaker  00:58
How would you tie that back into

Unknown Speaker  01:02
crime, like crime analysis?

Unknown Speaker  01:05
Um, I just think that there's like certain areas where there's like, to maybe too much police activity going on. And there's other areas that maybe need to be focused on more. I just, yeah, there needs to be a better analysis of, you know, just like, dividing that up. Okay. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  01:29
So, how important is it to you to kind of understand how crime analysis algorithms or the software actually work.

Unknown Speaker  01:37
I think it's really important for everybody to understand because like, it kind of goes back to what I was saying before, just people are like, quick to be like, Oh, the cops are always around here. But they're never in this neighborhood like, so maybe it's important for people to understand, like, why the cops are always there. And it can make people understand it more.

Unknown Speaker  01:58
Do you think there's any kind of like special or important information that you would want to know about the system or algorithm? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  02:05
maybe just like, know, like, the crime rate of the certain neighborhood that I'm in or that I live in and just know, like, Oh, this is why the cops are always around, or this is why they don't come around, unless they're called kind of thing.

Unknown Speaker  02:19
kind of sounds like you would want to know, like, the background. Yeah, kind of just how safe the area is, right? Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  02:25
Okay. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  02:29
So, assume that, like a specific process for crime analysis was implemented either where you live or where you work such that either way, it's still directly impacts you. How important would it be to still have some kind of understanding if at all of this algorithm?

Unknown Speaker  02:48
Um, I think it'd be pretty important to me, just because, I mean, I, I'd like to know, just like, why what's happening is happening, like why maybe even they would try to like, focus on that area, it'd be important to me

Unknown Speaker  03:04
to focus on that area, like,

Unknown Speaker  03:07
were you? Yeah, just, I mean, I think that if it was being implemented, I probably want to know, like, oh, is there a reason it's being implemented? Or is it just a safety precaution? Like, that kind of thing? Okay.

Unknown Speaker  03:20
So besides that kind of information? Is there any other kind of information you want to know about the process? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  03:27
I guess maybe just like, what kind of data they're collecting, like, I guess the crime rates and like number of rosters, they're making the company officers on duty and better know, stuff like that?

Unknown Speaker  03:42
Sure.

Unknown Speaker  03:44
So then, assume that someone with more expertise in the field vouch for the efficacy or like the efficiency, and the fairness of a given crime analysis process would still be important to you to kind of understand, like, how that works? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  04:04
um, I mean, I would be, like, more likely to believe them and listen to what they're saying. But I think I'd also want to, like for myself, just kind of start to understand it and

Unknown Speaker  04:17
try to look to make yourself feel calm about Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  04:19
exactly. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  04:21
Okay. And with that kind of scenario, situation, is there still any other information that you would want to know about that process?

Unknown Speaker  04:33
I mean, maybe, like, how it's being funded and stuff like that. Like, is it coming out of my taxpayer money kind of stuff like that?

Unknown Speaker  04:40
Sure. Definitely.

Unknown Speaker  04:44
would it change your perception of the algorithm? based on where the money was coming from?

Unknown Speaker  04:51
Um, yeah, possibly. I mean, I don't know if I'd be like, bitter about it. Because obviously, it's not a bad thing. But it's just like, nice to know, like, no, like, budget wise, like, maybe I'm making a positive impact in this

Unknown Speaker  05:05
spotlight or, like, so. worthwhile. Exactly. Exactly. So

Unknown Speaker  05:09
look for a lot of things, not just this, it's just good to know

Unknown Speaker  05:12
exactly. It's good to know. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  05:16
So do you believe that whether data was sourced ethically, legally or fairly, if that actually impacts the quality of the data itself?

Unknown Speaker  05:26
Definitely, if you like, it can it can very, very easily, like be skewed if you just talk to like, for example, one race, like not serving another, obviously can get skewed really fast. So. And yeah,

Unknown Speaker  05:42
the means of how they got the data and everything in Africa, that definitely would make me look at it differently.

Unknown Speaker  05:51
Definitely.

Unknown Speaker  05:54
So if you were asked to kind of go into, say, in this example, like Milwaukee Police Department, Director voluntarily go in and give information such as like, your location, where you live, and any other kind of certain demographic information that they wouldn't have, only for the sole purpose of kind of better training their data or their systems, just to improve the algorithm? What would your response be for the?

Unknown Speaker  06:21
Um, I think I'd be willing to do it. Just because I don't know. I know, Milwaukee specifically is like a very, like, segregated city. So I think it'd be something good for them to look at, like, where different like races live and stuff. Sure, I think that'd be useful for, like,

Unknown Speaker  06:45
kind of playing a hypothetical. What I feel is almost something like, it wasn't voluntary. Yeah, you were kind of forced to do this. What would your response be for the

Unknown Speaker  06:56
I mean, I'd probably be a little bit uncomfortable, just because I feel like, it's like, they have everything on me kind of thing. And it's kind of like one of those like, it don't like makes me kind of think of The Hunger Games just like they have so much like, for life? Yeah. Like,

Unknown Speaker  07:11
Hunger Games, can someone it's just,

Unknown Speaker  07:16
it's just like, the government is just like, very into everybody's lives kind of thing. And they're divided up by different like, statuses and stuff like that. So that's kind of just what what if,

Unknown Speaker  07:31
would you be comfortable with like, the walking Ed? Yeah, having access to like, your phone, rap records, or and be basically being able to track you in order to like, get your data? Would you? Would you be willing to give them like location data from your phone in order to train these crime algorithms? I mean,

Unknown Speaker  07:59
yes, and no, I mean, I don't really have anything to hide, but at the same time, it's just like, I feel like I'd always be like, second guessing. I'm thinking like, Oh, I can't go over here. They're gonna think something's up. I don't know. It was just like, make me a little bit on edge. But if I knew, like, the reasoning behind what they were doing, I'd probably be more willing to do it.

Unknown Speaker  08:24
Again, it kind of goes back to just it's the whole thing of knowing. Yeah, exactly. Something because being in the loop, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  08:30
Okay, knew what was going to be done with the data. And I'd

Unknown Speaker  08:35
be, like, more while to do it or not to do it.

Unknown Speaker  08:38
No, definitely. Definitely.

Unknown Speaker  08:41
So you would want you would still want to control your information for a specific

Unknown Speaker  08:47
right use case, right? I just, I think I find it a little weird that they'd be able to, like, see my location kind of thing all the time. But if it was for the right reasons, then I'd maybe consider it. Yeah, like,

Unknown Speaker  09:01
I trust my friends with the whole family. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  09:03
It's it's like certain people that you keep on there.

Unknown Speaker  09:07
So I see what you're saying. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  09:10
I guess he wouldn't want like your mother. No. Yeah. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  09:14
it's on a Friday night. Like, it's extremely

Unknown Speaker  09:17
Exactly. At least for me, you know? Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  09:20
I'm safe. But also like my mom, like,

Unknown Speaker  09:25
turn it on.

Unknown Speaker  09:28
Cuz, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  09:31
certain places. Yeah. Right.

Unknown Speaker  09:35
Exactly.

Unknown Speaker  09:37
So moving on, how would you feel if data from traffic tickets was collected and kept by the police to kind of systematically place the police along certain parts of the highway?

Unknown Speaker  09:51
I don't really see a problem with badges because I feel like there are certain areas that people like, think they're never going to get caught. And then there's other places that like, they're like, Oh, you shouldn't speed in this area. Like, I feel like that's already almost kind of a thing. Maybe it's not based on the tickets, but cops kind of pick up on certain areas, but I wouldn't be. I don't think that's a bad thing. Sure. I

Unknown Speaker  10:18
think that's pretty much it. Yeah. Okay, what were the questions you have and again, thank you for coming.

Unknown Speaker  10:24
Thank you so much.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai