Unknown Speaker  00:00
Alright, and I am here with you and participant number to start with the first question is, how have you ever felt if crime analysis has ever directly impacted you, if at all? So have any kind of algorithms? Or have you felt like data has affected you in any kind of way? I mean,

Unknown Speaker  00:20
say no, no, generally. Yeah. I mean, I'm sure it does, but not quite sure how it goes. So

Unknown Speaker  00:33
how important do you think it is to understand how crime analysis algorithms or the software works? Like, what kind of information you think would be important to know?

Unknown Speaker  00:45
Um, so I mean,

Unknown Speaker  00:49
generally, I mean, for like, people, you know, just like us, I guess, we should call them. editor, I don't think it's important that we necessarily do know these things. I mean, I don't know if this is like the same, but like I do, you know, there's like apps like neighbors and stuff. It's like, I go on those apps, which I know has some, like, a lot of, it's just like community participation, like somebody that, but I know that does have some sort of like, it shows you like, where your crimes happening and like, stuff like that. So I mean, I'm interested in that kind of thing. Okay. So if that's kind of the same that I see that, but otherwise, I don't really see how it would affect us, like day to day.

Unknown Speaker  01:33
So you would say as long as as long as it kind of works, that would be fine.

Unknown Speaker  01:38
Right? Yeah, for sure. Okay, but the whole breakdown of it. I'm not sure if that's relevant to everyday people. Okay, so.

Unknown Speaker  01:46
Um,

Unknown Speaker  01:49
so assume someone with more expertise than you vouch for like the efficacy and the fairness of a given crime analysis algorithm or software? How important do you think it would be to have just some kind of understanding of the process for yourself?

Unknown Speaker  02:08
Well, I mean, like I just said, I don't really think it's totally important for people like me, but I mean, that, you know, I think, obviously, awareness in any situation, I guess. It's important. So can you put it that way? Perhaps,

Unknown Speaker  02:25
yeah. There could be some kind of bad people. They're just lying about it for malicious things where they're supposed to be good people.

Unknown Speaker  02:32
Yeah. For sure.

Unknown Speaker  02:36
Do you believe whether data was sourced ethically or legally, if that actually impacts the quality of the data itself? I mean,

Unknown Speaker  02:45
I'd say so, so so

Unknown Speaker  02:47
yeah. So like, how would you feel if hack data was used by professionals? I mean,

Unknown Speaker  03:01
why? Well,

Unknown Speaker  03:03
if it's accurate, then I suppose but there's no way to know if that is accurate, correct?

Unknown Speaker  03:10
Yes, and no. Okay. I think it would kind of depend on the context of witches.

Unknown Speaker  03:15
Sure. Sure. Okay. Alrighty.

Unknown Speaker  03:21
Then, how would you feel if data from traffic tickets was used to allocate more police on highways or specific locations? I mean,

Unknown Speaker  03:34
yeah, I suppose that would be an idea. I don't know, though. Because it doesn't really, you know, it's not like a certain area, I think necessarily means there's going to be more instances of like, traffic violations. I think it's just an individual kind of thing. So

Unknown Speaker  03:54
what can happen anywhere?

Unknown Speaker  03:55
Yeah, like, it definitely could. I mean, anything can happen anywhere, I suppose. But so yeah, I don't know. I don't really think that would be particularly helpful.

Unknown Speaker  04:07
All right. Great. That's all we really have much here.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai