Unknown Speaker  00:00
Yeah, you to kind of ramble on if you would have

Unknown Speaker  00:03
written questions, right? No more. Okay, so I'm switching to reason I asked is that these are glasses for reading these are looking around the Bing, TV glasses. No.

Unknown Speaker  00:15
No, go ahead. So

Unknown Speaker  00:17
before today, like, have you actually ever seen any kind of like maps or use any predictive policing? software before?

Unknown Speaker  00:26
Not policing, though, have you use manual maps all the time, but not for policing purposes.

Unknown Speaker  00:31
maps as in?

Unknown Speaker  00:32
Well, I'm a real estate broker. So I'm using maps constantly to zip codes, for example, where someone wants to live, I want to live in like the zip code 532 to four or something earlier, or they don't want five to six. Now, I so I use maps a lot of maps to keep where people when I'm showing houses, So I use a map for and for political purposes. I'm very cognizant of automatic maps and Superbad. I run for Super County Supervisor f1, before school director of style was mostly my district. So Yeah, but I've never, I've never really been involved in law enforcement. Okay, so I don't have any background. And

Unknown Speaker  01:08
that's fine. And when you first came here, you also mentioned that you were a professor here at marq as an instructor, instructor,

Unknown Speaker  01:15
Okay. Like it's a difference.

Unknown Speaker  01:18
You probably know the difference. A little bit, what's a rank? I was never I was parked, I was a part time. And I don't know if they get the rank for us with a part time. Probably not. But I was a instructor. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  01:32
But you're working more with like statistics. Have you ever used carnal density estimations?

Unknown Speaker  01:38
Nope. I wasn't familiar with that whole concept. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  01:40
That's fine. The whole general purpose of this study was we want to see how people from any kind of background interact

Unknown Speaker  01:47
with that web

Unknown Speaker  01:49
web application, or what they see from that. No big deal at all. So moving to the interview is the first question is before today, Have you ever felt that crime analyses have directly impacted you? If at all?

Unknown Speaker  02:07
No, Nothing? Nothing, not crime analyses. crime has been just like

Unknown Speaker  02:18
crime in your area? Yes, we do have crime in my neighborhood. Yes. Unfortunately, unfortunately.

Unknown Speaker  02:25
Hopefully, you can be picked off Well,

Unknown Speaker  02:27
it's an ongoing cycle in

Unknown Speaker  02:31
every every major American City has small towns have some tube is not quite as bad as big cities. But but it like I've lived in the city Milwaukee, since since my birth, I was born here 1942. And the crab situation is definitely worse now than it was when I was less at the age you are now. Or when I was a teenager or young boy. It's more it's worse now. I mean, I it doesn't get worse every single year, some years were the past were worse than the current Thank you. But the general pattern over like a 5060 year period has been upwards.

Unknown Speaker  03:10
And with that going upwards, you have to find other ways to kind of counteract it and bring it back down

Unknown Speaker  03:14
to hope. So I hope we can hope we can

Unknown Speaker  03:17
hopefully, just pushing some advances on people see the benefit. Well, I hope so. Yeah. But good. Glad that you haven't been like directly impacted by crime analyses, then. Well,

Unknown Speaker  03:27
my analysis though,

Unknown Speaker  03:29
Yeah. So then assume that a specific process for crime analysis was implemented in your area, either where you live or where you work, such that I work out of my own homes, I

Unknown Speaker  03:39
have a home offices all saying

Unknown Speaker  03:41
Okay, so like where you live? Yeah. Such that it's used to directly impact you? How important would it be to have some level of understanding of that process like how it works? Well, it's a

Unknown Speaker  03:59
would be useful?

Unknown Speaker  04:02
What kind of information would you want to know about it? I want to

Unknown Speaker  04:09
know, what types of crime are most common in the area that I live in? That's

Unknown Speaker  04:17
And How does the crime

Unknown Speaker  04:20
activity in our area compared to other parts of the state or other parts of Markey County?

Unknown Speaker  04:25
Are there any specific types of crime you would want to watch out for if it was in your area?

Unknown Speaker  04:29
The one that concerns me Well, me personally the most is robbery. Because I walk up and down the streets every day. And I could cause could be a victim of robbery. My wife was a victim of carjacking. So for her It's a little bit more direct I was I was in the house of

Unknown Speaker  04:53
jack Rafa. Right.

Unknown Speaker  04:58
So let's say that robberies is the one I'm most concerned about in our neighborhood and bad driving. Well, it's not extremely serious as crime Go. It is a very big problem in the neighborhood. So bad driving, and all the a lot of Liam, including that not just inexperienced or unskilled, but deliberately violating stop sighs, red lights,

Unknown Speaker  05:28
Illegal passing.

Unknown Speaker  05:30
Speeding, I'm sure beating is problem. Yes. And wealth is connected with account with the problem of car theft, Because stolen cars are more likely to be used, either in illegal driving itself are also the condition of other crimes. So Yeah, the process carjacking and that's for sure is, It's a big problem in our area.

Unknown Speaker  05:52
So be very good to know, like, what types of robberies are going on? If it is

Unknown Speaker  05:58
things like absolutely and and what and what times of the day are people most and most risk? were

Unknown Speaker  06:06
useful time what times of the year they're more of them Swan

Unknown Speaker  06:09
falling kind of fine.

Unknown Speaker  06:12
So assume someone with more expertise vouch for the efficacy or the efficiency and the fairness a given process of crime analysis? How important would it then be to have some level of understanding of how that process works?

Unknown Speaker  06:28
Oh, I'd say

Unknown Speaker  06:32
America scalar? Or how should I describe it to you? It's up to me, would it be useful to know that not everybody would be interested? So I would find it useful to know.

Unknown Speaker  06:43
Definitely. Now, is there any other kind of information that you would want to know about that process? Even if the guy is kind of vouching for the efficacy?

Unknown Speaker  06:53
holographic statistics,

Unknown Speaker  06:55
like where they got the data from?

Unknown Speaker  06:56
Yes. See, a lot of crime is not reported. What we see in the news reports, When you see in the the statistics that are published in the newspapers, the FBI reports on the most serious crimes like murder, almost always report bank practice always reported. Crime hub, Simple assault, child abuse, incest,

Unknown Speaker  07:29
intercourse with a child.

Unknown Speaker  07:32
Lot of these crimes, They think they go on the court quietly, In many cases, either the people either the victims are, are don't know how to make a report, or they don't think it's worthwhile to make a report. So there's a lot of crime that is really in that in the statistics. And you know, but all of it would, it would sit the crevices will be worse than they are now. I think we don't take them as simple assault, like slugging somebody pushing somebody down like that. That among teenagers and younger kids, that happens all the time. And unless somebody gets really hurt bad, it doesn't Nobody call the police and nobody files a report or returnees. Nobody does that stuff. lyst It's a very serious injury. And the most the most of these simple assaults particular, like smack somebody in the face or slugging them or kicking,

Unknown Speaker  08:35
or stuff that is never reported.

Unknown Speaker  08:39
Would you say that everything should be kind of report instead of just the bad stuff that made it to the court case? Well,

Unknown Speaker  08:46
it would be ridiculous to report every single violation, because you would it would just overburden the system.

Unknown Speaker  08:54
I would say that sexual offenses should be all the reporter else. And, and a real problem there is that they often involve the perpetrator and the victim are somehow connected, and often in a way in which the victim As doesn't want to be seen as as an informer, or as a reporter with crime. And that's, you know, that's connected with like a child trafficking and stuff like that, where he could illegal immigrants, for example, to participate in, In the set prostitution, and the prostitutes are not likely to grow policeman because it will work where we will see your identification. Eric, Why are you here legally law, I like my mouth, I sneak over the border. So you can have certain amount of crime will never be reported, because the victim doesn't want to draw attention to themselves. And In the end, of course, the crooks notice and then they benefit from that unfortunate.

Unknown Speaker  10:03
So we still kind of good to just have a good threshold of

Unknown Speaker  10:07
well washed report. Yeah, this was the some of the unreported crime, like especially like mentions of sexual offenses, especially against children. Those were rapes on those are all be reported. Yeah. Ordinary, or there's just fights and stuff like that. Not necessarily good a lot of times is no, no big deal. Nobody gets hurt. I don't want to overburden the system with a lot of instacart sequential cases. f1.

Unknown Speaker  10:37
So Do you believe that weather data was sourced legally and fairly, if that impacts the quality of the data itself?

Unknown Speaker  10:45
Oh, sure. How So? Sure. Because

Unknown Speaker  10:48
it The, the the data was not it has not gotten a fair basis, that it's you're going to have over reporting or under reporting, depending on the neighborhood. And depending on the attitudes, the people towards police, like in some parts of the circle, inner city of the core of the city, that a lot of people basically have a hostile attitudes of the police. And they will, they will report crime to listen some

Unknown Speaker  11:20
very, very serious,

Unknown Speaker  11:23
but they will, they will ignore a lot, even what they know about, Even if a serious crime they know about a lot of reporting to every just about everybody I know would report it. We have positive attitude toward the police, and in terms of law enforcement, and the district attorney's and so on, but it is going to vary from one community to the other. So in order to get a fair estimate of what's killing that you have to have some kind of fair a fair system of collecting the data.

Unknown Speaker  11:55
And its effects. And also

Unknown Speaker  12:00
the airport or the police enforcing the laws, fairly in all parts of the scene all kinds of the county. From my personal experience, it seems that they are I I've heard from other people. That turn that I've heard from people this is this is for saying that in black neighborhoods, that the police we are stopped drivers per month per hour for all kinds of requests, and for things that they don't stop white drivers in the suburbs for and that the penalties for more more people are penalized for using illegal drugs in the central city, then people living in the suburbs use the same drug. But think it off with warning and thinking are they are they somehow different good for prosecution, they get some kind of better, better deal. This is there's a wide widespread perception in society, that law enforcement is not really fair. And On one hand, I would like to believe No, it really is fair. But The evidence is coming up more and more in recent years. That is not really feared. example is the the development of the cell, the cell phone, that take photographs and take videos, Before we have this technology, that some

Unknown Speaker  13:28
person who was arrested would say that the police beat him up, please. Nope. He was he was resisting arrest. I just only use only force that I needed to affect the arrest. But more so with the judge don't believe a police officer or a suspect. Don't believe the police officer.

Unknown Speaker  13:45
Now with the visual with these these cameras with

Unknown Speaker  13:50
with these cell phones, anybody can be a Lucifer And people are getting images of police brutally hurting people. And This is most famous in the Rodney King case. It's happening many Okay, so let's say in many cases, police would have a prosecutor. I think there's more policemen being prosecuted now for mistreating suspects than there were in the past. Not because they're doing it more now. They're probably doing it less now, actually. But because there's more evidence that suitable evidence. So question.

Unknown Speaker  14:27
It was what was your what was the question we got from

Unknown Speaker  14:30
it was, Do you believe whether Dina was

Unknown Speaker  14:34
was a fairly fairly legally apparently? OK, so the answer is it's important that be the legal and fair. Yes. And I think that we are learning because of the proof technology. That is in the past, it has not been as fair as as we thought it was. And This is this perspective from white people that you get from black people are Hispanic people, even Asian people, that they take a nice public putting service, right, read a lot of newspapers, They come with totally different answers as to whether the police are fair to people of all races and so on.

Unknown Speaker  15:16
Definitely, Then, What about the idea of ethically, if data was sourced on ethically, for example, how would that affect the quality of the data?

Unknown Speaker  15:28
Very Good question.

Unknown Speaker  15:33
Well, I would depend on what ethical message reuse, I suppose I can tell you. in the, in the distant past, that police used to beat people up, get data together, get information. That's right. One thing I read a book recently about the prompt family familiar with this, Bobby France,

Unknown Speaker  15:59
murderer, Leopold and Loeb case 1924.

Unknown Speaker  16:03
I don't.

Unknown Speaker  16:04
Okay. Well, anyway, a young a young boy, 13 year old white boy from the south side of Chicago, was found murder. And the police immediately he knew he went to a particular private school was a bit was one of these pretty high cost private schools. And so they figured though, probably one of the teachers in the school probably the first he was because I should say, the first the the he was kidnapped and held for ransom. And then after, and a couple days later, the body was found killed. So the police, They arrested All the teachers at his school settlements police station, they beat up till they get them to confess. And Well, strangely enough, nobody confessed, and nobody else can anybody else Me was people would be It turns out by the way that the the real killers were found, because the fact that one of the lost his glasses at the scene of the murder. And the glasses were traced to a guy named Nathan Leopold. And he's while I was with Richard lobe, and they started checking out these two guys will go into the whole story. It was it was the victims cousin and his homosexual boyfriend That committed the crime. But My point was only about the police how the police treated it, that at the time this is 1924 in Chicago, that it was good. It was just good order police practice that people were being requested. You can beat them all the time. What Do you want to know and kindness countries throughout the Soviet Union and shackles of I can only hear those little Captain nations this was all the time And you know you don't get you don't get accurate or reliable information this way. Besides being unfair to the victims of beings. So Yeah, it people people are being beaten off entirely whatever they want to hear. Are you familiar with the Central Park hijacker a hashtag hashtag? Central Park, Central? Central Park jogger case jogger case New York City, Manhattan 1989

Unknown Speaker  18:19
need for this no

Unknown Speaker  18:20
surprise to criminology, the law or you know, a white woman was found raped and beaten in Central Park. And before too long, five black boys were who happened to be in the general area. They were arrested. They've taken the police station And through question and there were there were there were no they were they were actually beaten. But they were. They were subject to a very, very vigorous harassment and interrogation by several police with the same time. And these guys were like the oldest was some Alex 17. The youngest was 15. They're just they're Muslim, just boys. And eventually, they, they they found out what the police wanted to say was who raped this this road? So one of the guys said, Well, yeah, this guy didn't hear. So You were there. Yeah, when I was here, but I didn't do it. He there was this other fella. And between the five of them, They all wanted to kill each other, The district attorney and invited all five of them as a partner to crime, And they're brought to trial. And they were they were they were convicted. By the way Donald Trump on newspaper ad saying that these people, these boys should be good. They should be They should be some capital punishment. That the terrible crime is that should be all the shot to be killed, but a full page ad results because that's before you ran for president. This was like 1989. Anyway, they're not putting prison. And years later, it turns out when the DNA evidence recently didn't have at the time, the DNA was pointing to somebody else who was not one of these five he was he was he was not arrested at the time, he had been put in prison because committed other crimes that he was convicted of. And he admitted to one of the the this five guys that is really assume that you're serving time for what I did. And actually totally 30. Turns out that the other fellow was convicted eventually. And all these five were they were they were hard. But my point only was the fact that when you come to the Christian Africa, That is kind of this curve because I did you buy the newspaper, I was aware of the case. I was connected these five guys are probably all guilty. And they were in the park and they know they did We each one minute somebody else there but they they are the mother and I am I believe that I'm a liberal. Yeah, I believe I believe they did. put in prison for all the way the key. And I saw this TV program which show the whole story including all the details, I realized that people in our society and our time can be Couldn't be blackmailed into confessing their crime they didn't commit. And police will sometimes use evil. So completely agree tactics, especially at people who are not sophisticated criminals. And they can be

Unknown Speaker  21:21
persuaded

Unknown Speaker  21:22
to confessed of things just to get to go home for life or get some kind of of leniency. Well, you're you're, you're 25 years or 25 years for this. But you can catch up in two years, If you to cooperate and confess, and people didn't believe it. Frankly, people sometimes have confessed to crimes they did not commit. So Yeah, all the ethical methods will will have a very bad effect on the street addresses.

Unknown Speaker  21:54
What about in like today's age everyone? Like younger generations, or even

Unknown Speaker  22:02
Everyone? Most people are on like their laptops or cell phones, all their data and information is out there on the internet? How would you feel if hack data was used by professionals like what kind of context which can only usage of it? Heck thing?

Unknown Speaker  22:21
By

Unknown Speaker  22:22
I divide your question is two parts to answer. First part is by law enforcement, Okay

Unknown Speaker  22:30
To solve a serious crime,

Unknown Speaker  22:34
kidnap, murder, rape, aggravated assault, Major robbery, robbery, some

Unknown Speaker  22:45
pretty serious crime terror that I mentioned terrorism for serious crimes, that that I would agree with, with with with a certain amount of

Unknown Speaker  22:57
guided

Unknown Speaker  23:00
oversight, that the authorities should be able to hack into, into people's private information can use us out of these crimes. Okay. case to private individuals, not part of law enforcement, they should not be allowed to hack into someone else's,

Unknown Speaker  23:19
for everything else. Is it just a matter of sworn in police officers, they'll have the ability and only they can do it. Whereas that's

Unknown Speaker  23:28
not only that they be police officers,

Unknown Speaker  23:33
including this FBI, CIA,

Unknown Speaker  23:37
home Homeland Security, that the the if they have rules, they have to be strictly enforced, Not just because somebody thinks that this is probably slough probably suspect, If they have to have electric, they should, for example, have their have a word from a judge. Just like you need to wear to have someone go into their, into their private media cloud, be something like we're tapping live is not it's not public information. There's a lot of public information that's out there that anybody can use it. But the things that are that are supposed to be kept private, that I always say we should, you shouldn't have to have a search warrant just like today for the Fourth Amendment In those days was paper, scrap the papers to be seized. So now it's electronic communication instead of just paper. But you have to have

Unknown Speaker  24:30
You have to have

Unknown Speaker  24:33
oversight from someone who is not part of law enforcement, which, for example, like a collective judge

Unknown Speaker  24:40
to do more of these methods, and they should only be used indicate it from first

Unknown Speaker  24:45
facade and very serious crimes, not just for everything. And that just to find, after Sonic fishing this position, the sea of like a Mr. Smith here, we think he's probably a crook. So, you know, let's, Second of all is that we'll see if we can find anything corrected that he did. But I don't agree with that. Just because you're a policeman, I don't believe you should be able to do any of the anything you want. I believe that it should be a tool. It's used when it's really necessary for public safety. But not,

Unknown Speaker  25:16
But but not

Unknown Speaker  25:19
for just

Unknown Speaker  25:21
suspicion of all the there has to be

Unknown Speaker  25:26
evidence of a crime, either bed committed or is about to be committed, that justifies invasion of privacy. Sure.

Unknown Speaker  25:35
So talking about the whole privacy, or what you want to contain yourself or able, you want to kind of I wouldn't say give away but have available. The next question leading into the next question is if you were asked to voluntarily give personal information, maybe more specific locations or demographics about you to the law enforcement only for the purpose of better training their algorithms or their predictive policing models. What would your response be for this?

Unknown Speaker  26:06
Well, I'd be willing to provide information such as age, gender,

Unknown Speaker  26:14
ethnicity.

Unknown Speaker  26:18
What else you want to know? That's

Unknown Speaker  26:22
Those

Unknown Speaker  26:23
that type of information I'd be willing to provide to pre database. Sure, but I would not be willing to provide political beliefs, religious beliefs, or

Unknown Speaker  26:39
any things that things that I wouldn't see any any any legitimate connection with, with, with Lou Adler, a

Unknown Speaker  26:49
one Forsman database.

Unknown Speaker  26:50
And like you said, you just don't see a connection between like, your political beliefs and religious beliefs that the police would want?

Unknown Speaker  26:58
No, there there was no,

Unknown Speaker  27:00
no legitimate use for that data, no reason for him

Unknown Speaker  27:04
to not try. I gave it to you guys. And the question I answered before, voluntarily, But that wouldn't want the police to have it.

Unknown Speaker  27:14
And that information stays with us. I understand your sandwich

Unknown Speaker  27:18
Example, that,

Unknown Speaker  27:21
you know, just like there was like, wouldn't let whether I whether I'm a democrat or republican or socialist, whatever. Now that's that didn't go into a kind of

Unknown Speaker  27:32
official database? Sure.

Unknown Speaker  27:35
I would only look things that I mentioned earlier, I would be willing to provide so there's some you some things Yes, I was not

Unknown Speaker  27:41
sure. Now, how would you feel about if the police came to you? And they said that we always need like your location services on to carry a phone or something such such that like to kind of like, track the people and see like, Oh, this person that did this crime just to kind of save the community a bit more? What would your response be for this? No, I'm not going to do that.

Unknown Speaker  28:04
You still want to give that kind of? Well, not? No, I'm not, I'm not going to keep it I got a cell phone in my pocket right now. This is turned off. I'm not going to come around all the time. Just please Can or I am, though, absolutely. That definitely.

Unknown Speaker  28:18
What's your reasoning behind this?

Unknown Speaker  28:20
I don't want to do it. And there's no need for I, I, I don't I don't, I don't see any justification for it.

Unknown Speaker  28:31
And

Unknown Speaker  28:33
I live like a girl

Unknown Speaker  28:37
All the time.

Unknown Speaker  28:40
Ridiculous, I don't even allow actually keep up for myself. Sure.

Unknown Speaker  28:46
If you ever read the book 1984. If you interested in privacy questions, Apparently, it's about the years of your study. your spare time, Take it out, go travel 1984. In in 1984, he wrote the book in 1947. Long before we have the technology and the light. And he he he follows things that

Unknown Speaker  29:09
happen in the future, one of which was

Unknown Speaker  29:11
wouldn't call out security cameras. In 1984, there were hotel screens, that same thing Exactly. That but that the police and the authorities would have what they call telescreen all over all the streets and everything to watch it everybody's doing. And then I'm going to a central data analysis place where the the authorities which called collect them called Big Brother, they will marq what everybody's doing. And in the book, it's treated as a invasion of the people's rights by a totalitarian government.

Unknown Speaker  29:47
Today, people want security cameras in our streets, we

Unknown Speaker  29:51
I contributed to have a security camera, so my alley, And the exact thing that in 1984, was considered to be so in truth was it was was it one of the intrusive things that big brother was doing today? People don't care about Big Brother there. They want that because they're so more consumer krY than they are on government, knowing who's on the street, what they're doing.

Unknown Speaker  30:17
That's already going on to like, even on campus, your market, every square inch is covered by a camera,

Unknown Speaker  30:23
and that should they should be effective in reducing crime, or in face where crime does creep anyway, In find out who did it before they were invented. Nobody was there. Nobody saw that. That was the left the left to go on. And

Unknown Speaker  30:41
then finally, the last question is, how would you feel if track data from traffic tickets was used and collected by the police in order to systematically place police officers along the highway?

Unknown Speaker  30:53
Well, that's fine. That's fine. For sure. Because a traffic ticket is a matter of public record already. It is. It's a accusation of an offense is telling the public square it's it's a turned into to the to the court system, it is man public record and to use it in order to get better law enforcement, no problem whatsoever.

Unknown Speaker  31:16
Sure, There's a big difference between that and people care, you know, carrying around locators themselves, because they are not.

Unknown Speaker  31:26
So The and that's pretty much all the questions I have to ask very Thank you for coming into


Transcribed by https://otter.ai