Unknown Speaker  00:00
So I'm here interviewing participant number seven, starting with the first question is, how have you ever felt that crime analyses have ever directly impacted you, if at all?

Unknown Speaker  00:17
Not directly impacted me. But I've seen it in other people

Unknown Speaker  00:22
in your lover and how you see it and other people?

Unknown Speaker  00:26
Well,

Unknown Speaker  00:29
those who have been directly

Unknown Speaker  00:34
impacted by crime as in that could be rape, that could be assault, that could be a lot of things. It's hard to catch whoever did that. So criminal sees hasn't always been accurate. for that. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  00:49
So then,

Unknown Speaker  00:52
for example, like the, the website you kind of play with application is a that's a crime analysis, kind of like algorithm or software, how important is it for you to know like how that actually works, or anything important information about it.

Unknown Speaker  01:16
I feel like it's important for

Unknown Speaker  01:20
more the government than the people almost just so they know, like, where exactly these are happening more often than that, and how to get police officers there and find the best way for them to prevent it from happening. And

Unknown Speaker  01:40
then assume, like one of these crime analyses, algorithms or systems was implemented in your area such that it could directly impact you, either for the better or the worse, or however it works. How important is it for you to understand how that works? Or why it's making the decisions that it is?

Unknown Speaker  02:04
I think that's very important. Because I feel like a lot of people don't understand why

Unknown Speaker  02:10
our government or our

Unknown Speaker  02:15
police work the way they do. And a lot of people question that and a lot of people are angry about that. And so they figured out the way it works. And if I figured out even the way it works, and I would understand why it is the way that it is.

Unknown Speaker  02:30
Do you think there's any kind of important information that you would want to know about how that works? Or whether works? specific information that you think is important to know?

Unknown Speaker  02:41
I don't know if these systems can figure out why.

Unknown Speaker  02:46
But I feel like that would be the most important for me. The reason

Unknown Speaker  02:51
more activity happens in an area than the other.

Unknown Speaker  02:57
Yeah, I guess that's okay.

Unknown Speaker  03:02
So then assume someone with more expertise vouches for like the efficacy and like the fairness of this. So they're saying that it works 100% like, well, it's completely fair, would you still believe them? Or do you think it'd be still important to know, kind of the underlying works of that algorithm or system?

Unknown Speaker  03:24
And I'm someone that likes to know, more than what someone's just telling me? Sure. I want to know why and

Unknown Speaker  03:35
the evidence to back up what they're saying.

Unknown Speaker  03:39
I don't know if that's how other people are, but it's sure.

Unknown Speaker  03:45
The same thing that if the guy is completely vouching for, like he has, say, all the degrees or anything needed for it saying is completely fair. Is there still any specific information that you think is important to know?

Unknown Speaker  04:10
That's okay, that's okay. Moving on, do you believe that whether data was sourced ethically, legally and fairly, if that impacts the quality of the data itself?

Unknown Speaker  04:31
I think if it's done well, and it's for the people to help the people and help the city or the place that's happening, then hopefully,

Unknown Speaker  04:42
so as long as it was used, for good means, okay, so how would you feel if hack data was used by professionals? Would that still be okay to use whether it's for good or bad, but in this case, if the hacked data was used for maybe good things, would that still be okay?

Unknown Speaker  05:08
I feel like the most real data is only in for good. Whether that's making people scared or not. It's reality. And then reality helps you fix the problem. Sure, rather than sugarcoat it.

Unknown Speaker  05:25
You said the most real data, what do you mean by real data?

Unknown Speaker  05:29
accurate?

Unknown Speaker  05:36
accurate

Unknown Speaker  05:39
data correctly, and shown off correctly? Sure.

Unknown Speaker  05:43
Truly is rather than not

Unknown Speaker  05:47
sure. What was fun.

Unknown Speaker  05:50
If you were asked to voluntarily give personal information, like your location, or any kind of demographics to law enforcement, just for the purpose of training the data or crime analyses, algorithms, what would your response be? Would you give them your data?

Unknown Speaker  06:10
If it's just for that specific reason?

Unknown Speaker  06:15
Yeah. I mean,

Unknown Speaker  06:18
I personally don't have anything to hide, like, if it's sort of if it's to help others, and I would, but you know, there's always government conspiracies that they're always looking at us. And I don't know, I just, I have nothing to hide. Definitely. So yeah, I guess. Sure.

Unknown Speaker  06:37
And then, finally, how would you feel if data from traffic tickets was used to allocate police kind of systematically along the highway?

Unknown Speaker  06:52
I feel like traffic tickets. Tickets are not the most of our worries. Like,

Unknown Speaker  07:00
yes, it could be dangerous. And yes, a lot of traffic tickets.

Unknown Speaker  07:05
help

Unknown Speaker  07:07
monitor the highways.

Unknown Speaker  07:10
But when it comes to seeing like,

Unknown Speaker  07:13
data from what I saw on the screen, I feel like there are other things that need to be more focused on.

Unknown Speaker  07:19
That sounds really bad. Sorry.

Unknown Speaker  07:22
No, but it's true, though. But

Unknown Speaker  07:25
I guess it just depends on where you are. Because I feel like different places are more violent than others. And

Unknown Speaker  07:33
where you are just, like, location concern? Yeah. Like,

Unknown Speaker  07:37
fear in a little suburb where it happens then. Okay. it's valid to have more police on highways and doing that. But, like in Manhattan, there's so much more going on than just traffic tickets. Sure.

Unknown Speaker  07:58
Great, thanks.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai