Unknown Speaker  00:00
New Years and all of that. So I understand like the

Unknown Speaker  00:02
garage and you so she runs a lab. Is this like a what kind of a lab? Is it?

Unknown Speaker  00:07
Oh, she's biologists, biologists, okay.

Unknown Speaker  00:09
Well, she has her he has two labs. And she does experiment with stuffing there. I don't know. So but she also works with the human body and tries to find ways to cure some diseases, of course. So she also works with extracting blood. And so she has to do the questionnaires and all that.

Unknown Speaker  00:31
Exactly. But I don't know if it's that big of a rush that like she's doing here. But yeah. Thank you for that. Thank you for that. And before today, Have you had ever seen anything kind of like this algorithm or like this before?

Unknown Speaker  00:46
Actually, when I moved here, the person that recruited me because I was recruited from MPs for so from the office send me a little map, but it was very bad. How cuz she told me Oh, look for for a house without came from Puerto Rico. So Show me the match. But it was not like that. It was just picture and it was from 2000. I don't know. So it was old. So that was not accurate. And So I was like, okay, shoot, I found this apartment here. Is that good? And she's like, no, don't go there. And I'm like, Okay, then I can't not follow the map that you gave me. Because it's not like I found it related to the map that you gave the suddenly. So now was a little bit of

Unknown Speaker  01:33
that are moving to the south side. And now everything's far away.

Unknown Speaker  01:37
It was kind of hard to cut a plot where you should go based on just like a static picture.

Unknown Speaker  01:42
Yeah, like that. Yeah. So I don't know anybody here. So I was like, only taking her recommendation on it. No, I'm saying this item. And now that I've been a couple of months, a year now I can see, you know, this is a really nice neighborhood, even though it's on the north side. So it doesn't

Unknown Speaker  02:01
doesn't really add up or you can't really, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  02:04
hopefully, things are fine. Now, hopefully, things are you're getting a better understanding. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  02:09
I do. Good.

Unknown Speaker  02:10
Alright, so moving to the first question is How have you ever felt that krim analyses have directly impacted you, If at all?

Unknown Speaker  02:19
The crime analysis? Well, at the beginning, when I moved here, just that having that old data,

Unknown Speaker  02:26
Literally,

Unknown Speaker  02:29
Tell me where to live. And this person that she has, She's from Puerto Rico, too, but her experiences maybe have tampered, and she

Unknown Speaker  02:40
passed that out to me. But

Unknown Speaker  02:43
Then again, if I knew that that system was available for me, I would have used it to see where I could have find probably a place a better place or a cheaper place, or a place for the same value that gives me a lot more from what I'm paying right now in the south.

Unknown Speaker  02:58
And especially if it was like Dana, that was up to date. Because whenever you were moving here and sounded like there was like an old map as well, Yeah. But as long as everything is like up to date, then good, hopefully, that we can get this out to the people though. Yeah. So then how important is it to you to understand how like an algorithm or software like that actually works? What kind of information you think is important to know.

Unknown Speaker  03:22
So data is always important, Doesn't matter in what aspect is related to? Is the data Don't lie? Like, that's my motto? And is, it's not that hard to understand that, especially if you have a lot of visual aids, it's not going to be that hard. So I think that will be very useful for everybody. And like for everybody, It doesn't matter if you already live in the area, or you're coming out of state to live in the area.

Unknown Speaker  03:57
What was the question again? I think I went sidetrack.

Unknown Speaker  03:59
Yeah, no, no, completely fine. Like, I'm like, how important is it to you don't understand, like how that website software actually works?

Unknown Speaker  04:08
Yeah, it is important, because that way, you know, especially if they plan to use it into a level of police, we're going to use that to maybe standardize or move their locations or send more policemen to that area to lessen the crime rate. So It's easy. It's not that It's not hard. You just have to look at the data, analyze it, and just follow it. Definitely. What do

Unknown Speaker  04:41
you mean, follow it just

Unknown Speaker  04:43
follow the data? Because it will tell you where you're neither more or where you're liking off? Okay. No, that does that make sense? Like in the business like, tells you when your sales goals up? And why did they go down? You know, so do you look for that specific moment where they went down to see what went wrong? So Same thing with this, what went wrong in that area? What happened? Kind of

Unknown Speaker  05:08
like tracking track

Unknown Speaker  05:09
down? What was the main? Yeah. Why? Because it wasn't like that, that say three years ago? Why did it went up? Now? Why is there higher crime rates in that area? When three years ago? That was like the safest place?

Unknown Speaker  05:23
For me? And do you think that there's any, like specific information? Or Instead of that is, do you think it's important to know like, what the actual algorithm is? Or is it more based on the data that you want to understand?

Unknown Speaker  05:39
I think both go hand in hand, depending on what you want to find. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  05:44
And What do you think people will find?

Unknown Speaker  05:48
Well, mostly, I noticed here in the state that mostly people look around who lives in that neighborhood, and economic status in that neighborhood area, to see how or schools also, because the main same bag, but if there's not a good school, probably the kids home, Like, be up there, and also socially won't be up there. You know what I'm saying? So there's a lot of things. He's very big and not narrow down to one thing.

Unknown Speaker  06:28
Yes, definitely. So assume that a process for crime analysis was implemented in in your area, and it kind of directly impacts you. But there's a person here who's very qualified, and he's vouching for the efficiency and the fairness of the algorithm. How important is it to you to still have some kind of understanding of how that process or algorithm works?

Unknown Speaker  06:55
Yeah. Because if there's something going to change around my neighborhood, I should be able to know what's going on. I live there.

Unknown Speaker  07:02
What kind of information do you think is important to know about it?

Unknown Speaker  07:05
Um, what is the more like, what is their reoccurrence of what specific crime in that area? And what time of day to have to avoidance that will be like, as soon as I will try to avoid it? I don't know if that makes sense.

Unknown Speaker  07:24
Like keeping yourself safe come away from that area. A certain time? Yeah, definitely. Definitely. So if you were asked to voluntarily give personal information, such as more specific location information or more specific demographics, to the law enforcement only for the exclusive purpose of better training their data, or their algorithms, kind of like a better perfect like a system like this. Would you voluntarily give your information away like this to the police?

Unknown Speaker  07:58
I would if only the police have access to it? That makes sense. Yes. I wouldn't want that to be a public record.

Unknown Speaker  08:08
You wouldn't want like, again, like, yeah, you wouldn't want like a specific information.

Unknown Speaker  08:13
Exactly. Public. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  08:15
So any kind of information that you wouldn't give to the police?

Unknown Speaker  08:18
Not really, really?

Unknown Speaker  08:20
Okay. Yeah, sure. So imagine that the police were coming to you. And they were saying, We want your location services, we want to kind of follow and track you, but only US will have that information, just kind of like track crime and make sure everyone's safe. Would you be willing to give this away to mode, your reasoning behind that, like just will freely?

Unknown Speaker  08:42
I mean, it's not harming Me and I doing something that will probably help the community? Definitely. So Why would I neglected or avoided?

Unknown Speaker  08:56
Sure. Definitely.

Unknown Speaker  09:00
So Do you believe that weather data was sourced ethically legally and fairly, If that actually impacts the quality of the data itself?

Unknown Speaker  09:10
Yeah, so

Unknown Speaker  09:13
do you think that whether data was source ethically, legally and fairly, If that impacts the quality of the data,

Unknown Speaker  09:21
know if it's done correctly, and ethically and fairly? Why would it have affected

Unknown Speaker  09:27
more of like, maybe the situation of like hacked data?

Unknown Speaker  09:31
All? Well, that's different, like, yeah, I internet computers? Well, if someone hacked the computer or getting to the data system, then yeah, that will tamper the information.

Unknown Speaker  09:43
But rather than that,

Unknown Speaker  09:45
I guess they will, they will need a software to protect their data, their source of data

Unknown Speaker  09:53
to so that never happens?

Unknown Speaker  09:54
Well, I mean, never say never but avoided, Then again, avoidance?

Unknown Speaker  09:59
Definitely, definitely. And What about more ethically? Do you think that whether data was gotten I think Lee, or not ethically does that impact the quality of the data?

Unknown Speaker  10:13
It depends, because even if it's, if it's gotten unethically, it may not be through. And also, if it's what's gotten ethically, it might not be true, either. So it's a win and lose situation, because you don't really know.

Unknown Speaker  10:31
Okay, You don't really know in

Unknown Speaker  10:35
whether it's true,

Unknown Speaker  10:36
or the information is true or not, even if it's was on, like, gathered, willingly or unwillingly.

Unknown Speaker  10:46
Sure, Definitely.

Unknown Speaker  10:49
They can always lie to you.

Unknown Speaker  10:52
Well, hopefully you're not lying here. No, I'm not.

Unknown Speaker  10:56
Perfect. So then,

Unknown Speaker  10:59
how would you feel hacked data was used by the parties? Excuse me? How would you feel if hack data was used by these professionals? Like what kind of context if at all? Would you condone the usage of it

Unknown Speaker  11:11
Miss infant Miss interpretation? And

Unknown Speaker  11:15
like, not everybody does? Does something for for the greater good. And maybe they want to say, Great, some parts of some people from that area, they don't want there anymore, Or some people that have this economic status. And at the end, that will affect everybody, Then there's fights, you know, everybody like, Oh, you think given that they're better than other people? It's not make sense? Definitely. So it will be a bit tricky. In that case, send the data will say, the wrong information, and you make decisions based on that. That will affect the community,

Unknown Speaker  12:02
you're saying decisions based on

Unknown Speaker  12:04
the data on hack of the hacked data?

Unknown Speaker  12:07
Definitely.

Unknown Speaker  12:10
And hopefully, it doesn't get to that hopefully, people use their software, don't avoid it. But hopefully it doesn't get to the The finally, how would you feel it data from traffic tickets was used and collected by the police In order to systematically place the police along the highways?

Unknown Speaker  12:28
I mean, they kind of do that. Now.

Unknown Speaker  12:32
I also I know, I'm sorry, that Google Maps tells you when there's a speed trap.

Unknown Speaker  12:39
There was ways no maps doesn't know to write, or

Unknown Speaker  12:45
Google Maps know any tells you and even Apple when you go through, They even ask you the speed trap is there to reassure. And also other I know, there's another one that my co workers show me that is like a Google Maps, but it's like a low key Google Maps. So It also does that. I mean, it will be useful, Then again, avoidance of traffic accidents. But I don't know. I mean, yeah, I think it might be useful. It will be

Unknown Speaker  13:20
what will be useful.

Unknown Speaker  13:22
Isn't that those ticket using the data from the tickets and see where is the most more speeding occurring? And what time of day? Sure.

Unknown Speaker  13:34
night just to track that data. Make sure everyone's safe. Yeah, definitely. Definitely. And This is basically all the questions I have to ask. And again, thank you for coming in and


Transcribed by https://otter.ai