Unknown Speaker  00:00
Then, before today before actually coming into this session, Have you ever seen use any kind of software or anything like that before?

Unknown Speaker  00:08
No, I have not.

Unknown Speaker  00:11
Never seen or never used? never. You've never used it. So you have seen it before. I

Unknown Speaker  00:15
believe I have seen that.

Unknown Speaker  00:19
Somewhere, maybe on uwm campus. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  00:23
But not knowing what I was looking at technically.

Unknown Speaker  00:27
Okay. Do you ever like what kind of context it was by chance? I do not, do not. Okay. So you would say that you have seen this stuff? vaguely, but not really a background? And I don't have right. Now, No worries. The purpose of this is we're trying to see how people different backgrounds actually interact with us. So that's completely fine. completely fine. So The first question is, is before today, before coming to this session? Have you ever felt that crime analyses have directly impacted you? If at all?

Unknown Speaker  01:00
Yes, Also, being a person of color,

Unknown Speaker  01:05
and the media and things that I've read,

Unknown Speaker  01:09
and things that I've heard in media, As it relates to persons of color, men, In particular,

Unknown Speaker  01:19
the stereotyping, if you will.

Unknown Speaker  01:23
So Yeah, that's how I feel so affected, or my community is affected? Definitely. But it

Unknown Speaker  01:29
seems like it's a whole kind of just based off the media, has anything ever happened, like in person, like walking down the street and something happened?

Unknown Speaker  01:38
They've been some challenges that I have personally experienced. But they were pretty much specific to me. Okay. But then I've observed behavior. That had nothing to do with me just in passing. But without the media influence, You know, where I made an assumption that that should not have happened. And that's me not even knowing all the particulars, of what officially saw.

Unknown Speaker  02:11
Which is just now, of course, but yeah, that's what we do.

Unknown Speaker  02:16
Yeah. But either way, it's still a bad thing, though. Yeah, it's still a bad thing. So In the case of like the crime analyses, algorithms, if it does, like affect you, like how you say, how important would it be to have some kind of understanding of how that works?

Unknown Speaker  02:40
I think it's important if you are desiring to make a change,

Unknown Speaker  02:46
a progressive change, if you will.

Unknown Speaker  02:49
Just for knowledge, I don't know that it's important at all, Okay, If you're not going to do anything with it, But if we are going to do something with it. Or even if you're not personally do something with it, if you use a teachable moment, I guess, four persons that are coming behind you or that you may come in contact with. And It's a good conversation piece, if you're going to be running for some type of political office, or any type of government program, You want to have that you want to be educated. So that you can communicate again, but if you're not going to be working in that area, I don't know how helpful that would be to the lay person, if you

Unknown Speaker  03:33
will. Sure. And so breaking it down a little bit, you first bring up film, it would be good to us, if there's some kind of change, like a progressive change coming out? And what kind of change do you think will come about from us?

Unknown Speaker  03:47
Educating the people, educating people?

Unknown Speaker  03:53
Giving them the facts, I don't think is education, Education is more teaching. This particular project, I believe, is facts, as well, making sure people know the facts versus what someone's failing. You know, so it's, it needs to be accurate, especially if you're seeking money from outside sources. You want to be as accurate as possible, to, to get to the common goal. And then it also allows you to find out where help is needed. Was it actually needed versus where you think it's needed? You know, people in the city, we assume that all the crime is here? Well, maybe because we're the largest, it appears that way. But the same time is here is in some of the If you would well to do areas, it's just not reported or she's not hyped. media sensation is not in those relative areas, that Fine,

Unknown Speaker  05:01
fine. And kind of going back to the whole algorithm aspect, trying to understand like, how important is you think it should be to know? Is there any specific information you would like to know about the algorithm itself for the processes? The

Unknown Speaker  05:22
is it available online? would be a question is, is the information that you gather, accessible to the public? Just or just somebody wants to Google? What's going on in 53218? You know, what's the time, you know, stats, and I do know, some of the websites,

Unknown Speaker  05:45
Some of the government sites, they share

Unknown Speaker  05:48
information like that, which is, you know, it's good to know if you're, if you're looking to buy a property. Insurance, you know, or if you're going to make an investment. So that that makes it very important. Definitely know, personally, for

Unknown Speaker  06:07
my standpoint, definitely, definitely consider those things. And it

Unknown Speaker  06:11
kind of like, ease your concerns a little bit to like, we don't exactly have this application live to the public. But the data is all available to the public on the walkie Police Department website. Okay, so you can see up to I think it's 10 years worth of crime accounts. But the crime accounts are only the accounts that have made it to court to court. Yes. Who have actually been in front of a judge? Yes. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  06:37
So just being reported? No, which that number is

Unknown Speaker  06:42
probably would have been more higher.

Unknown Speaker  06:43
Yeah. multiply this by Yeah. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  06:46
But Yeah, this data, even though it did only make it records, not just like, stopped both the recordings as well. It's still publicly available.

Unknown Speaker  06:56
Now. So when you say make it to court, Does that include

Unknown Speaker  07:03
with a Ripley's where people?

Unknown Speaker  07:07
You caught me, I'm guilty? Is that still considered court? Or is that? Because we've negotiated? Or we, we've reduced it from a robbery to misdemeanor or petty theft? Is that still consider court or

Unknown Speaker  07:22
that I'm not exactly sure, I was just told that these are all accounts that have made it to in front of a judge, Okay. And after that, just not sure what's happened there, whether it was

Unknown Speaker  07:36
That means I'm getting that we get arrested, We pay a bond, and a public defender comes in and says how you want to play? Are they going to drop it for whatever. So you never get to theaters, but there still was a crime, per se committed, was washed away, you know, even like with traffic things. But I mean, I'm sure that's looking at more intense. I mean,

Unknown Speaker  08:07
maybe, hopefully, like more police department has something like a system like this in place where it is using data like that. But my guess is maybe not everything can be made available to the public. Now,

Unknown Speaker  08:26
I'm not sure.

Unknown Speaker  08:31
So assume that there's a crime analysis algorithm or process implemented in your area, that it does directly affect you? How important would it be to still have some kind of understanding of how it works,

Unknown Speaker  08:47
was going to directly affect me.

Unknown Speaker  08:51
In most cases, I would have researched that information about myself, because now it's personalized. For those that if you're not going on property of did not have insurance, or if they just don't care, because there's too many other things going on, then it's not going to but if it were me personally, especially as a business owner, And whoever has financial investment in a particular area, they're going to want to know all the particulars. Who are the neighbors? Who are the people coming in Sex Offenders, where the parks were, you know, why is insurance here was, you know, our property tax is going up every year because of what

Unknown Speaker  09:35
somebody would have.

Unknown Speaker  09:37
You know, if I was in that situation, that would be a great concern to me.

Unknown Speaker  09:42
So touching on it, it sounds like knowing the data is a big part of

Unknown Speaker  09:48
information you would want to know.

Unknown Speaker  09:49
Yeah, yeah. It's part of the information highway that I will jump on board with.

Unknown Speaker  09:56
Is there anything like specifically related to the algorithm or even the process in general, you would want to know,

Unknown Speaker  10:05
public funding? Probably, I want to know, how much public funds are being utilized in this particular? what's available to me at as a taxpayer, what's available to me? Do we have? Do we have an adequate police force? for this? You know, I do. Is the fire department or volunteers? Or is it you know, are these city and our county employees that we can rely on versus somebody is trying to be the principal of the school and he's a volunteer for the farm, and he's a sheriff. By go, you know, maybe early type? situation? So Yeah, definitely, definitely.

Unknown Speaker  10:55
So then, do you believe moving on, do you believe that whether data was source legally and fairly, If that impacts the quality of the data itself? Absolutely. Also,

Unknown Speaker  11:07
because if you give an accurate information, You're deceiving people, And you allow the person's two things to either be more comfortable than they should be? Or more frightened, and they should be, which is control, which is it's a big problem, if the if the information is tainted,

Unknown Speaker  11:31
and if you will, It is

Unknown Speaker  11:33
not regarded as reliable. People are making decisions, Right. But where they're going to send their children to school, where they want to live?

Unknown Speaker  11:44
and things of that nature. So yes, a big deal.

Unknown Speaker  11:48
thoughts about the truth

Unknown Speaker  11:50
that yeah, if it? If it's if it's not accurate, if it's not truthful, Then there's some of the ploy behind it. Which was, I mean, who spends the energy? Well, I guess, Spinning, spinning the energy to falsify That information is really deeper than we can kind of concept.

Unknown Speaker  12:17
Why would you want to say this is present crime, It's 84% of the people are going to know anyway,

Unknown Speaker  12:27
They live in those particular areas. But outside people have been deceived, oh, this is all Crimea will sink all our money into it, I'm going to find out that it is a highly populated area of crime pretends to me to get out to kind

Unknown Speaker  12:44
of on the basis of the whole

Unknown Speaker  12:48
getting truthful data or truthful.

Unknown Speaker  12:53
Like still data points. How would you feel if hacked data was used by professionals? Like what kind of context would you condone the usage of it? hacked data? Yes.

Unknown Speaker  13:04
Now I'm not familiar with with head data.

Unknown Speaker  13:06
So whether it's law enforcement or a college students trying to finish final exam project, They go through the internet bypass certain security protocols, and they steal information, or take information from people without them knowing,

Unknown Speaker  13:27
like identity theft,

Unknown Speaker  13:29
Almost, but it wouldn't be specific information, let's say Firstly, in this case,

Unknown Speaker  13:35
like demographic information, just I don't know that.

Unknown Speaker  13:41
Like, no names are involved. When I hear hack,

Unknown Speaker  13:43
I think I should have that. But if it's an atheist, somebody has it. So at this point, who decides who's privy to that information? And I'm thinking, if it has no identifying information,

Unknown Speaker  14:01
The information

Unknown Speaker  14:04
should be used. But How is it being used? Now for a paper to get a letter grade?

Unknown Speaker  14:14
I don't see

Unknown Speaker  14:16
an issue with that. But for law enforcement, or lawyers to manipulate the Constitution with a traditional saying or to get some bargaining power with the city or county board, then it becomes a concern.

Unknown Speaker  14:38
In that respect,

Unknown Speaker  14:39
What if it was not in the case of like manipulation? What if it was in the case of trying to catch like a sex offender, criminal?

Unknown Speaker  14:49
What we have, That's why we have law enforcement in place. Because I'm computer savvy, does not afforded me the right to go in and just pinpoint people and ultimately destroy their lives, that's something that I will turn over to the authorities and let them do their job with hopes that they will do their job. I don't know if I was some vigilante type person on some type of Crusade, that that would affect me. But I don't know why I will be trying to catch anyone.

Unknown Speaker  15:30
Officers are getting

Unknown Speaker  15:33
massive, massive managed to do it. You know,

Unknown Speaker  15:36
leave it to that. It's not until we find that there is the system slide that we protest and petition and we uncover to put other persons in

Unknown Speaker  15:50
those areas.

Unknown Speaker  15:55
So this kind of like leads into my next question with the whole basis on all law enforcement. So assume that you were asked to voluntarily give personal information, maybe more specific information based on your location more on where you work, or where you live, where you go to eat or shop, or a more specific demographics to the local law enforcement only for the purpose of better training their data and sending like their algorithms like that to kind of reduce crime. What would your response be for voluntarily giving this information? I have no interest? No, he certainly would not.

Unknown Speaker  16:37
You know, No, I mean,

Unknown Speaker  16:42
where I'm eating and we're having my social pleasures, is not going to reduce crime.

Unknown Speaker  16:49
And now regarded as a tracking method.

Unknown Speaker  16:55
Unknown to all African Americans eat it In 53212, with McDonald's, and then do all white women only get their hair done in five to 207. I mean, so it's kind of like, what does that have to do with crime? What we're doing socially has nothing to do with crime. And to ask those questions, Dave is kind of a invasive.

Unknown Speaker  17:18
Sure. I don't

Unknown Speaker  17:20
know how that could even remotely help the cause? Because, you know, is and you can have too much data. That's not productive data, if you will. And I'm thinking they lose the focus off of what the actual goal is.

Unknown Speaker  17:43
And just completely It sounds like you're you're big on privacy until

Unknown Speaker  17:48
I am certainly public, whatever is public is public. You go to court, you have Carson is public.

Unknown Speaker  17:57
Who I choose to date, where I choose to eat.

Unknown Speaker  18:03
Everywhere I Live, is private. Until I And there's not unless there's a need, I can't see why you need to know where I live, to manage a crime. You know?

Unknown Speaker  18:18
So that's, yeah, Definitely, my thoughts. And

Unknown Speaker  18:24
then finally, how would you feel a data from traffic tickets was used and collected by the police in order to systematically place the police along the highways?

Unknown Speaker  18:34
Um, how would I feel from traffic ticket?

Unknown Speaker  18:43
The problem is doing that. I'm thinking, Okay, Maria, was the last time you got a speeding ticket. Okay, well, if I got a speeding ticket, between a scene in Kenosha where there's just share, And then maybe over the holiday weekend, for people got stopped. Well, you know, then you probably think about this probably would be a good spot to have someone or something there. You know, even if we were a marq. car to slow down, so I can I can see that being

Unknown Speaker  19:18
a plus, Definitely.

Unknown Speaker  19:20
Yeah, I can see that. Would you be like okay, with those kind of things. I think I'll be okay

Unknown Speaker  19:24
with it. I mean, it's a ticket. It's a ticket.

Unknown Speaker  19:28
None of your information is going to be out there. It's just we see that on Saturdays mornings. In this stretch, that is somebody generally getting stopped or multiple hearts are getting styled. So they're okay. So maybe we should do something versus having a car. And

Unknown Speaker  19:48
2017, Wisconsin from Marquette? Well, this is stuff like nobody's running to those guys. So Why do we have anybody in that area per se? Because I kind of help

Unknown Speaker  20:00
figure out where they should go, where to kind of look, diminish, buy these tickets? Definitely. Definitely. Well, that's all the questions I have to ask. And again, thank you for coming into

Unknown Speaker  20:10
the world and


Transcribed by https://otter.ai