Unknown Speaker  00:01
Okay, so we are now recording with participant number four.

Unknown Speaker  00:06
We have several interview questions.

Unknown Speaker  00:09
Please just feel free to say as much or little about the question as you think your thought processes, anything that really comes to your mind. We're doing this for, you know, context. And so our richness of information, so feel free to talk as much as you want. Our first question is, how have you felt that crime analyses have directly impacted you, if at all?

Unknown Speaker  00:38
Well, the way that people analyze crime, it like directly impacts like what they do about it, if anything, basically living here, and sort of my little town, where we actually like new all the cops, and like, if something did happen, you probably knew exactly who it was. I was a little different of a change. But then they were like, Oh, we have a new PD and market police, and then Campus Safety all here. And it's still kind of feels that a lot of times like it's still not safe enough. And so I guess it's really important that it's not just the perception of safety, but we're actually having like data of how safe we are, how much we're actually like, doing to stop crime and how much crime is actually happening. Because it's really easy to like think, oh, run a private campus, like things wouldn't happen here. But you know, they still do all the time. Perception is just so much different than what the actual data says.

Unknown Speaker  01:47
And you mentioned, being from a small town, and that having a sort of different feel when it comes to crime and crime prevention, law enforcement. Would you care to elaborate on that a little bit? I guess just sort of the differences and your perception of things from being from a small town to coming to a larger city like Milwaukee?

Unknown Speaker  02:11
Yeah. So in my town,

Unknown Speaker  02:14
it was always like, never question if you wanted to, like buy a girl or blade growing up, like, we would be really young. And we would like to whatever summer school or whatever thing we're going to, and it was like, never a question or worry. And we would stay out late, like in the neighborhood and just hang out with people. And it was never anything and the only time you ever like came across a cop was probably you were speeding. And that's why you're being pulled over. And that was and then other than like the police officer that was a part of our high school, the like liaison officer and he was just kind of like, the chill guy that would like talk at assembly sometimes, like we never really had any interaction with law enforcement. In here, if you see one, it's like, it could be anything from like, they're getting queued over the same place to like, there's something literally going down right there. Like I was walking home from work just yesterday. And I was walking right past the Walgreens, as a girl was running out. And they were like, she stole the shampoo. And the officer was like getting hurt. Like literally, I was right in between. And I was like, oh God just trying to get around, you know, now it's less of a spectacle or you want to stop and watch more like, you just want to keep going. And just like walk past the like nothing to do serve a feeling. And if somebody if someone was getting like pulled over something where I'm from, you are all like stopping like, oh, who is it? So it's a lot different here.

Unknown Speaker  03:43
Thank you. Our next question is, how important is it to you to understand how crime analyses algorithms or software works? What information would you think is important to know?

Unknown Speaker  03:55
Um, well, I took a social studies class, which is the closest thing to data analysis. And he kind of just kept stressing that you can do anything with data, really, I mean, you can make it seem any way that you like. And it's really important to know, I guess, what they want you to get out of the study, like, is it bias? Is it neutral? like where's this data coming from? Because a lot of times, the political advocates can make data sound the way that they want, based off of how they collected or just a bunch of things that really like screw with a lot of people who don't know anything about it. And it's really easy to fall for the traps of like, funding for more, because, you know, they actually want to put in something else and just want, yeah, people have just sometimes a lot different of intentions. And so I guess that would be what I would want to know about where the data is coming from, like, Who's funding the study, first of all? And what are their intentions with it?

Unknown Speaker  05:02
That's kind of what we've learned in that class. So that's,

Unknown Speaker  05:08
and would you

Unknown Speaker  05:11
feel like the algorithms that would be used for crime, crime analyses could be similarly, like, manipulated? Is? Or are you more referring to the data like that they're based off of,

Unknown Speaker  05:29
I think it can be both I mean, you can manipulate who or how you're collecting data from and you can also manipulate the results and what they mean. I think you can definitely manipulate all of it, I'm going to law school. So learning arguments and how to phrase things is kind of like my interest. And I think politicians and people who want funding or differences, I mean, it's not always a bad way to you can always phrase things to get people's attention and use data in a positive way to, but it can just be used anyway. So you always have to maybe see it yourself or like, actually do your own interest, like in research in it.

Unknown Speaker  06:15
Awesome. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  06:19
Sorry, just making a quick note here.

Unknown Speaker  06:23
So our next question is assume that a specific crime analyses process so an algorithm or software was implemented in an area in which you live or work such that it could directly impact you? How important would it be for you to have some level of understanding about that process? If you knew that it was specifically being implemented? Where you frequent?

Unknown Speaker  06:54
Yeah, I think most people would want to say that they would give it as much attention and care, even if it didn't affect them. But yeah, it would definitely piqued my interest in care a lot more if it was directly affecting me and where I live. I would definitely hope it was for the better. But I think it would be hard to tell when they're implementing something new whether what kind of effects it was going to have. I mean, you could bring more police officers in an area and think that's going to help but that also just might make the I mean, it could result in less crime. But it also could result in like, less trust from the public, because now they feel like they're being constantly patrolled and watched? And, you know, it could it depending on where it is, I think it could bring different results anywhere. And I think it would be open minded to whatever was being implemented until I started to see what was happening from it.

Unknown Speaker  07:52
Okay. And in this scenario, would there be any information that you would think would be especially important to know?

Unknown Speaker  08:02
I'm probably like, our taxes going up? Like, where's the money coming from for the change? Probably.

Unknown Speaker  08:17
Because I haven't really

Unknown Speaker  08:21
invested in my own permanent living place quite a long time. So I'm trying to think. Yeah, I guess just money would be my first concern. I think more concerns would just come along the way where I started to see like, what effect it was having.

Unknown Speaker  08:41
I can't really think of anyone,

Unknown Speaker  08:43
no worries.

Unknown Speaker  08:47
Do you believe whether data was sourced ethically, legally and fairly impacts the quality of the data itself? And how so

Unknown Speaker  08:56
for sure.

Unknown Speaker  08:58
Any kind of like study or data collection, they should be fully aware of what's happening and why it's being gathered. Nobody would want their word or opinions being used against them. Like if you were serving a neighborhood. I think that it's also important that you're not manipulating the data in a in a like, a bad way to for selfish reasons, or bad incentives. Yeah, definitely always important to be moral and ethical. whenever it comes to studies or psychology or crime, just anything, where you're dealing with people in their lives. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  09:49
If asked to voluntarily give personal information such as location and demographics, to law enforcement for the exclusive purpose of better training data for crime analyses, algorithms, what would be your response? And what would be your reasoning behind that response?

Unknown Speaker  10:08
Um, I would give data, pretty open book, and you know, they need up to date current information for everybody. Otherwise, if you're just using old statistics and opinions, you know, your methods and results aren't going to keep up to all the constant change that's happening, especially so our generation is now the ones that will start being buying homes and having children and like, we're going to be the ones that are going to start to be in the neighborhoods. And so it's important to know, like, what the new people coming in are looking forward to

Unknown Speaker  10:50
so so you have a concern for data being up to date.

Unknown Speaker  10:55
Yeah, I think all data and studies need to like, I know, it's hard with like, funding and all the people and like, collection takes a long time for a lot of large studies. But

Unknown Speaker  11:08
yeah, I think that's important. And one final question. How would you feel if data from traffic tickets was used to allocate police along highways?

Unknown Speaker  11:20
Um,

Unknown Speaker  11:23
I guess being someone who was not too long ago, young and just started to drive. I didn't think tickets were a big deal like speeding tickets and stuff. But I guess I could see like, maybe there's certain spots on the highway where a lot of people start to speed so for safety, it can be helpful, but I don't know. I wouldn't see it as like a huge necessity, I guess. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  11:54
Thank you for your time.

Unknown Speaker  11:57
Kind of pauses


Transcribed by https://otter.ai