Unknown Speaker  00:00
Okay, so we are here with participant number 19. And we are beginning the oral interview. So, before coming in here today, in your general life, how have you felt that crime analyses algorithms have directly impacted you, if at all?

Unknown Speaker  00:23
I don't believe that. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  00:29
Our next question is, how important is it to you to understand how crime analyses algorithms or software works? What information would you think is important to know?

Unknown Speaker  00:48
Is important information to know, would probably just be like, the background or the pattern?

Unknown Speaker  00:58
But other than that, I'm not really sure. Would you want to know?

Unknown Speaker  01:06
Anything about how like the software itself works? or? Yeah. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  01:16
the follow up? Question.

Unknown Speaker  01:19
We have, I mean, we have we have more questions. Yeah. Um, but in this case, would you? How, how familiar would you want to be with this kind of software?

Unknown Speaker  01:33
I mean, if it's being used, often probably, fairly, like, understanding of it, because I feel like it would just like play an important.

Unknown Speaker  01:50
So sort of building off of this, assume that a specific algorithm or software was being implemented in an area where you work or live, such that it could directly impact you. In this case? How important would it be to have some level of understanding of how it works? And what information would you want to know about it? In this case,

Unknown Speaker  02:21
probably very important. And I feel like information I would want to know, would be like, if the algorithm based on gender or life or gender had like an important role in it or phrase had an important role in it? Or

Unknown Speaker  02:42
kind of like,

Unknown Speaker  02:46
like the degrees of

Unknown Speaker  02:50
Hollywood impact me, I guess. Okay. And so,

Unknown Speaker  02:53
so you would want to know, like, what type of information it takes into account? That's what it sounds like, and how it would be used, if you wanted to understand the impact. Right. Okay. So assume that someone who is an expert in the field of algorithms, who has expertise with a particular algorithm

Unknown Speaker  03:28
for use for crime tells you that it is

Unknown Speaker  03:33
both effective and fair. How important would it be in this case to have some level of understanding about how said process works? And what information would you want to know in this case? I'm

Unknown Speaker  03:52
lagers lives, the results, like if they're skewed or not, and probably just how the whole like, if it's fair, like, how is it made fair? Okay.

Unknown Speaker  04:12
Do you believe that weather data was sourced ethically, legally and fairly impacts the quality of the data itself? And how would you? How do you think it would impact that? If so?

Unknown Speaker  04:27
I think quality and fair data is definitely important. But I don't think I feel like you wouldn't be able to see like skews or patterns and results, if it is fair, and quality data. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  04:46
So you don't you don't see a connection between but you don't think that fairness causes quality, but you do want both? Things like you think both are important. Is that Am I understanding you correctly? or so? Okay.

Unknown Speaker  05:03
I think fair and quality data go hand in hand. I feel like the results wouldn't be very, like repetitive or like skewed. Okay. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  05:18
Yeah, I'm glad I cleared that up, because I kind of misunderstood dude. So, if asked to voluntarily give personal information, such as location and demographics, to law enforcement for the purpose of better training data, or for crime analysis algorithms, what would be your response? And what would be your reasoning for sad response?

Unknown Speaker  05:46
I think I would definitely, like voluntarily give my information. Probably just because I feel like it would benefit myself, for them to at least prepare properly rather than I know, like, the one person wouldn't make a difference. But if everyone voluntarily did I feel like they'd be able to prepare properly. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  06:11
And what when you say prepare properly?

Unknown Speaker  06:19
I mean, I guess like,

Unknown Speaker  06:22
having enough people like, call her like,

Unknown Speaker  06:29
like to reference

Unknown Speaker  06:30
Yeah. Okay. So you would,

Unknown Speaker  06:35
so the size of like, having a lot of data, you think it is important. Okay. And then our final question would be is, how would you feel if data from traffic tickets was used to allocate police along highways?

Unknown Speaker  06:56
I think

Unknown Speaker  06:58
it's smart. To I think it's smart for the city itself to do that. But I'm

Unknown Speaker  07:09
almost kind of unfair to drivers.

Unknown Speaker  07:14
How would you

Unknown Speaker  07:16
How would it be unfair? Why Why? What's your, your thought process behind that?

Unknown Speaker  07:24
Just because I feel like it should more so.

Unknown Speaker  07:28
I feel like it would be more so about like speeding, and I don't necessarily, like believe speeding and safe driving. But I do believe that.

Unknown Speaker  07:43
Like

Unknown Speaker  07:47
you said like resources can be allocated differently.

Unknown Speaker  07:51
Yes. for speeding. Yeah. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  07:56
So you would have a concern for whether that's like a important focus. Okay. All right. Well, that concludes our interview. That's all the questions. Thank you so much for coming in.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai