Unknown Speaker  00:00
And I'm you're interviewing participant number 20. But we'll start with the first question is before today before coming into this whole session, how have you ever felt that crime analyses have ever directly impacted you, if at all, and

Unknown Speaker  00:16
literally is not

Unknown Speaker  00:18
just nothing at all,

Unknown Speaker  00:19
I mean, my roomates a crimonology major, but she doesn't really talk about any criminal sees or anything. So

Unknown Speaker  00:26
how important is it to you to understand how crime analysis algorithms or software work?

Unknown Speaker  00:32
And at the moment, probably, probably not important, but I mean, obviously, like as you get older, and once you're out of school, and like, less busy focusing on like, your major is more important. But maybe like, yeah, more is like, paying attention, devoting taking time and allocating funds, things like that. But now

Unknown Speaker  01:00
you say paying attention like allocating funds? What do you mean by that? Like,

Unknown Speaker  01:05
making sure like, at once I'm like, actually settled in like a city knowing like, where my taxes are, like, where money is going to be able to fund the city that I want to stay in? Like,

Unknown Speaker  01:15
if they did have a crime analysis?

Unknown Speaker  01:17
Yeah. Like, it's a good thing to like, I would like to know, like, what they're doing, like, that's like, with anything that's not just particular to

Unknown Speaker  01:24
this? Or is there any, like specific important information that you think would be good to know about that algorithm?

Unknown Speaker  01:34
Maybe just like, general information, how it works? With most anything, just like john information we give out to people, but besides that, like, most things, like some of the things like on there, like, I don't understand this, study it so. So Sure.

Unknown Speaker  01:49
So then assume that the specific process for crime analysis was implemented in your area, either, like where you live or where you work, such that is used to directly impact you. How important would it be to just have still have some kind of understanding of how it works? Be very important, like,

Unknown Speaker  02:09
especially like, if I'm being born around me, or being studied, like, and everything's unpredictable. I mean, you don't know who you're working with? Who's around us, it's kind of important to note now, and especially for women, like safety wise.

Unknown Speaker  02:22
So you say everything's important to know, like,

Unknown Speaker  02:25
I like having a general idea of like, how everything works is like, it was like, it's just educating yourself in general. Sure, being able to know. Sure.

Unknown Speaker  02:36
And again, with like, what kind of information do you think would be important to know? I think

Unknown Speaker  02:41
just like any crime, liquor goes, how big or how small and isn't really take market, for example, like the fact that nobody heard that that girl got ripped off campus, but then I mean, PD did nothing but like putting it out. Like, they should tell parents like people just because it was off campus doesn't mean it's not. It's like, it's less important.

Unknown Speaker  02:59
There we go. I didn't get any messages or whatever about it. She Do you know, like, I'm you affiliated?

Unknown Speaker  03:05
She's a she was the last fall?

Unknown Speaker  03:09
Oh, yeah. But during the school year, since we're just at a party

Unknown Speaker  03:13
off campus. Yeah. Okay. So there's no notification like parents at now. And like, me, now, they'd be a lot better luck with the robbery. Like that happened on 17. So I got more information, like it's positive, but like, I feel like there's not even enough information about like, just ongoing investigations or things like that,

Unknown Speaker  03:32
like not enough stuff available. And you're saying,

Unknown Speaker  03:34
Yeah, I mean, anything. I'm like, website and stuff like that. But sure. They happen to me like affiliate soon. It's really important, you know,

Unknown Speaker  03:43
exactly. Only for part of the organization, then you're still kind of attached to that. Yeah, you got to be a worker

Unknown Speaker  03:49
angry. Just because it means it's not off campus. I mean, it's like anything different.

Unknown Speaker  03:56
So then, assume someone with more expertise vouch for the efficacy or like the efficiency and the fairness of given crime analysis process? Do you like what would still be important? Given someone with more expertise vouches? For like the efficacy and the fairness for given crime analysis process? How important is it to still on have some kind of understanding of the algorithm, if at all,

Unknown Speaker  04:27
extremely important, I don't care how you mean, I feel like like, yeah, you can trust somebody as much as you want. But like, that's whole point. I'm like research and like, people testing things, like over and over and over to, like, make sure it's like, it's accurate. Like, nothing's necessarily set in stone and like, things can change, like, machines change and malfunction. Like you could have the best intentions for things but like, not just having a general where some awareness of something doesn't happen. I mean, it never hurts.

Unknown Speaker  04:50
Exactly. Oh, he would look at it as more like wanting to live abroad kind of understanding of what's going on.

Unknown Speaker  04:56
Yeah, I mean, just like general knowledge, and like, obviously, if something happened, like, I look into it more, you just continue to educate yourself.

Unknown Speaker  05:03
Yeah, definitely. Definitely.

Unknown Speaker  05:07
Do you believe that whether data was sourced ethically or legally, unfairly impacts the quality of the data itself?

Unknown Speaker  05:16
I mean, quality Actually, yeah, just because like, you're not necessarily getting good data if it's on, on ethical or like, not done in a precise, like, standardized measure. It's like put a little bit with people have been doing like people are testing out. Cool, guys, like you could literally just mimic data, if it's not ethical, that means it's not necessarily accurate. Like, you can just like add numbers up and like, there's no necessary.

Unknown Speaker  05:41
So then imagine, see, a group of professionals hacked, like a certain amount of data? What kind of context would you condone the usage of that if at all, you shouldn't

Unknown Speaker  05:53
use it at all.

Unknown Speaker  05:56
You shouldn't use it.

Unknown Speaker  05:58
And like change everything just like go out. I mean, think about the food industry, think of the health industry like the diet industry, like literally everything has happened. So you have to like actually pay attention and like look at their actual journals, like other peer review, things like that. So

Unknown Speaker  06:13
Sure. Sure. So if you were asked to voluntarily give personal information such as like your location and demographics, just the law enforcement only for the purpose of a better trading their data and crime analysis algorithms, would you actually participate like go in give away this information?

Unknown Speaker  06:34
And like a tracking link with Apple iPhones like constant tracking or just like hey, this is me, this is where I live. Um,

Unknown Speaker  06:44
I would say just like where you live, like your street addresses and any other kind of specific demographics

Unknown Speaker  06:50
um, I would say yeah, I mean, I'm not I don't have any criminal attention. So I'm looking to hide so

Unknown Speaker  06:58
yeah, go into the other scenario What about if it was always tracking you? Well, would you still voluntarily give it away?

Unknown Speaker  07:06
No, just for like privacy. I just like it's like people that are feeling everything all the time like you literally just like can't get away and like obviously like crimes have increased now like with the use of like social media and like things like that. But are there been more trends I guess that we've heard about, but like people before us to necessarily have their entire lives filmed or tractor and things like that so I mean, it would help some people but I mean, they probably already do Travis Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  07:34
know what's up like my location like my friends can tracking anywhere. Yep,

Unknown Speaker  07:37
same. So yeah.

Unknown Speaker  07:43
Then

Unknown Speaker  07:45
finally, how would you feel if data from traffic tickets was used and tracked by the police to kind of systematically place police along the highways

Unknown Speaker  07:55
and I speed so for me personally, that's like, it obviously, like, lower the amount of accidents like issues people have. So like it would? If it was, it was worth it, probably worth it. So I'd say

Unknown Speaker  08:12
just, like you're saying, like to lower like the speeding stuff with the sun and

Unknown Speaker  08:15
just like monitor life, just like traffic and like, make sure it is being safe. And like, there's things not like they're happening, but it's just not as big of an issue as it is like, things are like not as important of an issue. Sure. Sure. I don't mind it, but it's not like priority

Unknown Speaker  08:33
will be priority.

Unknown Speaker  08:36
I'm literally just anything that's like hurting people. So I was like murder, rape, sexual assault, like things like that, that are actually harming people or like even robberies, like, things like that, where you're taking away something. I mean, car accidents can happen and stuff like speeding, there's not as big of a chance that you're going to kill someone necessarily is like,

Unknown Speaker  08:57
exactly, like aggravated assault. Yeah, sure.

Unknown Speaker  09:03
Well, that's all the questions I have to ask you again, thank you for coming on.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai