Unknown Speaker  00:00
So I'm here with participant number one, we're moving to the short oral interview. So the first question is, how have you felt that crime analyses have directly impacted you? If at all?

Unknown Speaker  00:13
Um, I don't feel like that they really have I mean, police, you know, use it to help locate crime and predicted a little bit.

Unknown Speaker  00:24
From my perspective, I haven't noticed it. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  00:29
We'll go to question two is how important is it to you to understand how crime analysis algorithms or software works? What information would you think is most important to know? Could you repeat that question? Sure. So how important is it for you to understand crime analysis algorithms, or just the software used for predictive policing works just as the app? So how useful is it for you to understand the inner workings of that app?

Unknown Speaker  01:00
I think as a society, having hands on and knowing that is relatively important when it comes to, you know, how they view the data. And you know, if it's racially based, if it's, if it's very discriminatory about certain, you know, very selective,

Unknown Speaker  01:22
then that can actually, you know,

Unknown Speaker  01:25
be important on, you know, people following their in obeying their constitutional rights.

Unknown Speaker  01:32
So you would say it would matter more on the data itself, rather than the algorithm as the data might contain, like a bias or something or?

Unknown Speaker  01:42
Yes, yes, exactly. biases occur and biases can be bad.

Unknown Speaker  01:49
Of course. Next question is do you believe that whether the data was sourced ethically or legally, if that actually impacts the quality of the data itself? If so, if not, How so?

Unknown Speaker  02:02
Um,

Unknown Speaker  02:05
how the data is gathered. And if it is actually biased? It depends on the algorithm, because sometimes it will actually be factually true, and it will come up with possibly good responses. However, that doesn't mean the rights of the people that it's gathered from and how it's used are protected.

Unknown Speaker  02:31
Then finally, we'll move to the net. Last question is, how would you feel if data from traffic tickets was used to allocate police along the highway? certain area was more prone to speeders and the cops. Were able to log that or check that out. would you feel if more police were systematically put on a roads and highways? Well, that would

Unknown Speaker  02:57
I don't see how you know that single statistic is encroaching on anyone's rights. If people are breaking the law in an area just by that one statistic, then I see no issue with putting more police in that one stretch of highway. As you know, the highways used by generally lots of the public comment I was going to say, I think I forgot. The remind apologies. That's okay.

Unknown Speaker  03:27
Well, I think we're all done here. So thank you for your time.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai