Unknown Speaker  00:01
It's kind of like a first kind of precursor question. Have you ever seen anything like this before? use anything like it before?

Unknown Speaker  00:07
I've seen it before. I've never actually used it though. I interned last summer in MPs fusion division, which is like bunch of crime analysts. Okay, kind of had. I'd like seen it, but I've never interacted with it.

Unknown Speaker  00:19
Okay. So you would say like, you can kind of, like read it a bit, you understand? Like how to kind of navigate or use it. But yeah, okay. Were you actually kind of analyzing the crime? Or what exactly were you doing?

Unknown Speaker  00:32
I worked with an analyst for the Special Investigations division. So I sat with her while she was kind of researching. And she didn't actually do any of the arm, anything like what I just did. But she did introduce me to some of the other analysts in the department. Okay. Did do more stuff like that? And like statistical analysis and stuff like that,

Unknown Speaker  00:54
definitely. Do you remember? Like, what kind of tools you were using? And all

Unknown Speaker  00:57
by chance? I don't remember. I don't remember.

Unknown Speaker  00:59
That's okay. That's okay. Then. So you, we almost say that you kind of have like, some technical background with this, you know, you understand it a little bit, a little bit. You've seen it. Okay, perfect. And that's fine. We're the moral or the story of like, all we're trying to do, we're trying to see how different people or people from different kind of technical backgrounds interact with stuff like this. So that's perfectly fine. And very helpful. So thank you, thank you for your time to for all those. Moving to the first question, though, is before today, before actually coming into the session today? How have you ever felt that krim analyses have directly impacted you, if at all?

Unknown Speaker  01:39
Um, I mean, I think it definitely helps on, like keeping this like areas we live in safer, because they can locate where like high crime areas are and how and consent officers there to kind of diffuse those situations. So I think that helps in keeping like the locations where like, I'm living safer. I guess maybe it's not that big of an issue, like on markets campus, per se, but just knowing and seeing how that's impacted different areas of Milwaukee,

Unknown Speaker  02:10
just in the matter, in the sense of keeping, like the community, so yeah, definitely, definitely. Have you ever seen it like indirectly, like seeing crime analyses, like, impact, like someone else, like a friend or something at all? Not that I know, that's, that's fine, that's fine. How important is it to you to understand how crime analyses algorithms or the software actually works?

Unknown Speaker  02:34
I think it's important to know, just to kind of be aware how like these things are working and just, I don't just have a better understanding of what crime analysis like is, I guess? Because I feel like if you have a better understanding how it works, you can kind of see the benefits of it. And it doesn't seem like you're kind of like wasting government funds and people's time by investing in it, I guess,

Unknown Speaker  02:57
exactly.

Unknown Speaker  02:59
What kind of information do you think is important to know about these crime analyses, algorithms and software? And

Unknown Speaker  03:06
probably like the effectiveness of it, like how well they work? And I guess what they provide law enforcement and how what they do with the information, how they use it to keep our community safer

Unknown Speaker  03:16
use of what they provide law enforcement. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  03:18
So like information on like, like, Where? Which crimes like occur most? And what areas in on the things that they could do to kind of to like the data?

Unknown Speaker  03:27
Yeah, the data would be good. Yeah. Sure.

Unknown Speaker  03:31
So

Unknown Speaker  03:33
assume that a specific process for Chrome analysis was implemented, either, like where you live, where you work, or in your area such that like it's used could directly impact you? How important would it then be to have some kind of understanding of it? Again?

Unknown Speaker  03:52
Yeah, I definitely think it's still be really important. Just because the more you know about how things are working, the better you can understand how they impact you, and how they impact your community and everything around you. So I think it's really important to know,

Unknown Speaker  04:08
I'm kind of going almost on a limb here. But

Unknown Speaker  04:12
assuming like what kind of information you would want to know about, it's more about like, the data and

Unknown Speaker  04:18
maybe not some more, I guess, the other data, but just like how effective I guess like the, I guess, it is on like, showing where crime is happening and what they're doing to like, make crime go down. That makes sense.

Unknown Speaker  04:34
sounds almost like the

Unknown Speaker  04:37
support a know like the motives. Yeah. The law. Like, almost like how they're using it.

Unknown Speaker  04:43
Yeah, exactly. Okay, definitely.

Unknown Speaker  04:48
So assume someone with more expertise vouch for the efficacy, the efficiency and like the fairness of a given process of crime analysis. With their background, if they have all the degrees or like the experience, how important would then be to know how the process actually works?

Unknown Speaker  05:13
And I think it's still would be important, but I feel like, overall, like, I guess, for me, I would still want to know how it works. But I feel like most people will kind of just take their word for it and not really be concerned with it. But personally, I would still want to know, just because I'm interested in things like this. So

Unknown Speaker  05:31
you're interested in like, the whole crime analysis? Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  05:35
Yeah, that specifically and kind of law enforcement is like a whole more.

Unknown Speaker  05:39
Okay. Just, what about it just how they work? Or?

Unknown Speaker  05:44
Um, yeah, so I'm majoring in, like criminology. And I'm just interested in like, why crime happens. And then like, the whole process of going from, like, when a crime happens to somebody being under arrest to go into, like the court process, just kind of all of it is really interesting to me. Okay, that's really

Unknown Speaker  06:01
do you believe that whether data was sourced ethically, legally or fairly, if that actually impacts the quality of the data itself?

Unknown Speaker  06:14
I think so. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  06:17
I just think its overall.

Unknown Speaker  06:21
I don't know. That's a good question.

Unknown Speaker  06:24
I would say, Yeah, I don't know why, but I feel like it definitely would affected. Okay. Just because I feel like if they're if it's gathered on ethically, it can you have, there's a better chance that it could be skewed towards whoever was collecting its kind of point of view, rather than what the truth actually may be.

Unknown Speaker  06:46
So kind of putting in the situation of,

Unknown Speaker  06:50
say, a group of a group of professionals hacked some data. What kind of context? Would you condone the usage of it?

Unknown Speaker  07:00
If they hacked it? I don't think it should be used at all. No.

Unknown Speaker  07:05
Definitely.

Unknown Speaker  07:08
What about kind of plan like the hypothetical than what it feels like a law enforcement agency that hacked some data or information? Do you still say no, not use it? Or what would you say?

Unknown Speaker  07:21
I would probably still say no, just because if it's gathered, illegally, or unethically, I just don't think it should be used at all. Why not? I just feel well, it's wrong, obviously. And I just feel like it's, I don't know, I just feel like it's just abuse of power. And you look at

Unknown Speaker  07:43
just overall

Unknown Speaker  07:46
performance.

Unknown Speaker  07:48
So then,

Unknown Speaker  07:50
if you were asked to voluntarily give personal information, almost like a more specific information on your location, where you live, or where you work, or more specific demographics to law enforcement, only for the purpose of better training their data or their algorithms. Just for crime analysis, what would your response be for that?

Unknown Speaker  08:12
I would give my information.

Unknown Speaker  08:16
Is there any kind of information you would want to withhold? Or you wouldn't tell them?

Unknown Speaker  08:21
Based on like, the things you just like mentioned? No, I let them know. Like, where I'm living, where I'm working, usually, they can like have access to stuff like that anyway. So if they really wanted it, they could get it. So it doesn't hurt me in any way to tell them

Unknown Speaker  08:39
what it feels like the scenario where

Unknown Speaker  08:43
they wanted people to come in, and just for them to take like your location services, so they'll always kind of be following your phone. And

Unknown Speaker  08:52
No, probably not. That's, I feel like an invasion of privacy. So

Unknown Speaker  08:58
yeah. Division only if it was, like voluntary.

Unknown Speaker  09:02
Well, I guess it was voluntary.

Unknown Speaker  09:09
I guess if it's voluntary? No, but I don't think I would personally do it.

Unknown Speaker  09:14
I don't know. That's just me, though.

Unknown Speaker  09:18
Why not? You said it was an invasion of privacy. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  09:20
I don't know. I just feel like having there's like a difference between them knowing where I live, where I work, like, stuff like that beat and like, knowing where I am at all times, like having access to that?

Unknown Speaker  09:33
Definitely. And then

Unknown Speaker  09:36
how would you feel if data from traffic tickets was used and collected by the police in order to systematically place police along the highways?

Unknown Speaker  09:49
Um, I wouldn't feel like negatively about it. But I feel like there's just so many different, like, locations where that happens, where it like might be hard to determine where like the hotspots would be to the point where it would be useful, but

Unknown Speaker  10:06
maybe I'm wrong. I don't know. But I wouldn't feel negatively about it. Can you

Unknown Speaker  10:11
elaborate on that a little bit, I think you said that, like, be hard to locate where,

Unknown Speaker  10:16
because I feel like I'm at least where I'm from. I'm from like a smaller town. And like, our officers, you know, sit in the same exact spots when they're like, trying to get traffic tickets. So I feel like if they're in the same spots, they're going to be, you know, pulling people over in the same spots. So it might show that there's like, hot spots, but it's just depending on where the officers are sitting. So I don't know if it would be 100% useful in determining where to place officers. But

Unknown Speaker  10:43
it almost sounds like you're leading towards like a miss. allocation. Yeah. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  10:50
if that makes any sense at all?

Unknown Speaker  10:52
does, it does, then assuming giving information to like the law enforcement, kind of go back to the whole volunteer and give information to law enforcement? Assuming the information could be used to improve the efficacy of like the law enforcement, crime analysis algorithms, why do you think that some people would still want to preserve or withhold their information, even if it's supposed to help the community?

Unknown Speaker  11:26
I feel like people like their privacy. I know some people don't want their business out there.

Unknown Speaker  11:34
Which makes sense. I don't know.

Unknown Speaker  11:42
Probably, I don't wanna say like, they they just probably don't want their business out there, which is fair.

Unknown Speaker  11:52
Definitely, then I think that might be all the questions I have to ask. Again, thank you for coming in. Thanks for the time today.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai