Unknown Speaker  00:01
Okay, so we are here with participant number 12. beginning the oral interview. So, in your own life, how have you felt that crime analyses algorithms have directly impacted you? If at all?

Unknown Speaker  00:21
I don't really know honestly, like that the actual algorithm,

Unknown Speaker  00:26
the algorithms or their use?

Unknown Speaker  00:31
I mean, I've heard it like,

Unknown Speaker  00:33
market.

Unknown Speaker  00:36
They're using, like, facial recognition software. So I guess that's, yes. That's how it's going to impact me. I don't really know. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  00:51
How important is it to you to understand how crime Alice's algorithms or software work? What information would you think is important to know about it?

Unknown Speaker  01:06
information that's important.

Unknown Speaker  01:10
Let's say like, like,

Unknown Speaker  01:16
who was operating those areas, and like, the police officers, like names and stuff? And if they're, like, actually, like, good people.

Unknown Speaker  01:29
That's really, what do you mean by good people, you just explain that.

Unknown Speaker  01:33
I mean, sometimes, like, sometimes, whenever I'm driving, like, I used to get nervous. If I saw, like, a police officer, like, around me, and you kind of think of like, the police is like, running under like the same thing. You know, but um, yeah, it would just be nice to like, know, that. They're just trying to do their jobs to like, okay,

Unknown Speaker  02:06
so so they're knowing their motive. Yeah. And, and their goals. Okay. So,

Unknown Speaker  02:15
assume that I'm a specific process for crime analysis. algorithm, or a specific software was implemented in an area where you live or work, such that its use could directly impact you. In that case, how important would it be to have some level of understanding about that process? Hundred percent? Okay. And what, what information would be important for you to know, in this scenario?

Unknown Speaker  02:51
Yes. Like,

Unknown Speaker  02:53
it would be important to know, like, what, why the reasons why they were trying to put in this new software, and also like, the legal implications of it, because I feel like it would change up the game and like law a lot.

Unknown Speaker  03:15
Do you want to expand on that a little bit? Just what do you mean by changing up the game?

Unknown Speaker  03:23
Just

Unknown Speaker  03:25
I don't really know, like, really know what I mean by that. But I just know, it'd be a lot different than then how crime is normally like, okay, process of how like, Oh, we saw you driving too fast. Here's a ticket, versus, oh, we have this camera, and we're actively trying to catch you doing something wrong. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  03:49
So you feel like it would be more preemptive policing? Or? Or is it just the fact that something new is getting implemented? And that would make me want to look into it and rethink it a little bit? Okay. Awesome. So assume someone with more expertise than you vouch for the efficacy and fairness of a given process of crime analysis. In this scenario, how important would it be to you to have some level of understanding about how set process works? And what information would you think would be important?

Unknown Speaker  04:33
Is that given with the

Unknown Speaker  04:37
the new system?

Unknown Speaker  04:41
Yeah, the sort of assumption is, if if a new system was being implemented in your area, but there were expert in the subject who are vouching for it?

Unknown Speaker  04:55
What? What would

Unknown Speaker  04:56
you think in that context? I would,

Unknown Speaker  05:01
I would still want to know about it. Like, I'm just, I don't know, I just want to know why. Like, I just want to know why. I guess it doesn't even doesn't really matter. Like, it is, because it probably will be like, I just want to live. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  05:19
So you seem to care a lot about, like, people's motives. Yeah. Okay. And do you know, like, why is it? Like, why are they using resources for this? Or like, why do you think that this will be helpful? Just like,

Unknown Speaker  05:40
what's the?

Unknown Speaker  05:43
What's wrong with the whole system? Okay,

Unknown Speaker  05:45
so why?

Unknown Speaker  05:49
How, how will this improve things?

Unknown Speaker  05:51
Yeah, exactly. Okay, so know what, what's, what's better about it? Okay.

Unknown Speaker  05:56
Awesome. Okay. So do you believe that whether data was sourced ethically, legally and fairly impacts the quality of the data itself? and How so? Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  06:11
I mean,

Unknown Speaker  06:14
I guess, if you're, if you're trying to say you can get data that's on ethically gotten, like, I'm sure people do it. But at the same time, I think if you want to present your data in a way that that's, that's accurate, I think you have to do it ethically, like just because being like a psych student, like we learned a lot about, like, like, ethically, like getting data and stuff like that. So I think it's, I think it's definitely important, because it also shows like, the quality of the person trying to present that to, okay, so like,

Unknown Speaker  07:01
it speaks to the motivations or

Unknown Speaker  07:08
will just like, it just shows that like, the person who's getting the data is like, is like, doing the right thing, or going through the right steps to get it. Okay, you know,

Unknown Speaker  07:19
so

Unknown Speaker  07:21
that makes sense. All right. Um, if asked to voluntarily give personal information, such as location and demographics, to law enforcement for the exclusive purpose of better training data for crime analyses, algorithms, what would be your response? And what would be your reasoning?

Unknown Speaker  07:46
reasoning would be like, it can only I feel like,

Unknown Speaker  07:53
I feel like that can only come back to bite you. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  08:00
How do you how do you think that it would

Unknown Speaker  08:03
come back? Because like, like,

Unknown Speaker  08:10
driving your car, right? Sure. They put these they put these new, like, auto insurance things in your car that can like detect if you're going like too fast. Yeah. And you get screwed if you're going too fast. For your insurance.

Unknown Speaker  08:26
Oh, yeah. I, I think I've seen like, the progressive commercials or whatever.

Unknown Speaker  08:30
So I feel like it could be like a penalty sort of thing. Like, oh, we like we heard that. You were doing X, Y and Z, and blah, blah, blah. They were there would be no, like, you know, like in court out.

Unknown Speaker  08:47
Like people vouch for you saying was here, like,

Unknown Speaker  08:51
yeah, an alibi.

Unknown Speaker  08:52
Yeah, that whole system would be like Colorado if people had these things. Okay. You know what I mean?

Unknown Speaker  08:58
Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  09:00
That makes sense. Awesome. Okay, so, our last question, I funny that you mentioned driving. Our last question is How would you feel if data from traffic tickets was used to allocate police along highways? Okay, okay. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  09:18
Would you

Unknown Speaker  09:21
feel like that makes sense? Okay.

Unknown Speaker  09:23
So there is sort of a

Unknown Speaker  09:27
proponent of like,

Unknown Speaker  09:31
why why do you feel that traffic tickets make sense, whereas

Unknown Speaker  09:40
other stuff doesn't

Unknown Speaker  09:41
use? It's like, it's data.

Unknown Speaker  09:48
It's okay. So, like, it's already like, data that exists. And it's not just like,

Unknown Speaker  09:55
yeah, like, you can, like, analyze that. Like, it just makes sense. You know, I'm saying like, if more people got in a car accident, like, in this location, from like, this location, like, okay, we're going to go to that location, see what's wrong. fix it. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  10:17
All right. That was our last question. Thank you for your time.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai