Unknown Speaker  00:00
Before today, before coming in late to the session, Have you ever seen or dealt with any program or anything

Unknown Speaker  00:05
like that before? Uh, nothing specifically related to me. And I've, I've seen maps with, you know, I mean, just articles, you know, reading the newspaper, whatever of, you know, high crime areas or things like that. So, I mean, I've, I've seen maps that have crime plots on them. But usually there's like a key. And it's, it's, it's designed so that, you know, any dummy can try to understand it like a just a static picture.

Unknown Speaker  00:34
Correct? Correct. Yes. Yeah, definitely. But nothing you've ever interacted with or play with online? just looked at?

Unknown Speaker  00:43
So much, so much? I don't? I don't think so. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  00:47
That's fine. The whole basis of what we're doing here is just trying to figure out how people of different backgrounds interact with it, too. Okay, so that's completely fine. So before today, Before coming into the session today, Have you ever felt that crime analyses have directly impacted you, If at all?

Unknown Speaker  01:09
I never really thought about the analysis of crimes directly impacting me. No, not really.

Unknown Speaker  01:19
So

Unknown Speaker  01:21
So no, I can't say,

Unknown Speaker  01:23
okay, that's, that's something I thought of? Sure. So I'm not exactly sure. Like what the context of it was, when you did see that picture of like the crime map or heat map newspaper? Was it just you looking at it and be like, Oh, cool. Did it like kind of influenced decisions later on?

Unknown Speaker  01:40
No, I mean, it's just a general curiosity, you know, I would kind of look, you know, where I Live, or where I've lived, and see what the crime rates are in those areas? Because I mean, in that sense, that analysis does affect me. But I mean, the, you know, the actual, you know, the analytics of whoever's doing the analysis, I never think about how that affects me. But but sure, I mean, I I do I guess in that respect, I look at the map, and I see I personalize it to where I am and where my family members are, and and kind of just get an idea of how that area of the city is versus other areas of the city.

Unknown Speaker  02:17
Definitely, definitely. So then how important do you think it is to understand or have some level of understanding of how the process or algorithm works?

Unknown Speaker  02:29
Yeah, I mean, context is everything. So I mean, what is the you know, where's the data set that's being used to? To come up with that? I think that is, that is important. If you're going to make strong decisions based on that, if you're determining, oh, where I'm going to live, or where I'm going to start a business, based on, you know, a map that shows you where crime may be?

Unknown Speaker  02:49
Yeah, I think it is important to know,

Unknown Speaker  02:51
the real, you know, the data sets they're using behind that and to, to make sure that it's done in a non unbiased way to make sure that you're getting

Unknown Speaker  03:00
straight information, you say, when it's done in an unbiased way, the report these,

Unknown Speaker  03:05
The study, Okay, The study or like the study that produces the map?

Unknown Speaker  03:09
Oh, sure. Like the algorithm man or the process short, right? Yeah, definitely. Definitely. Besides just like the data, or you think that there's any other kind of information, you want to know, whether it's the algorithm or the process at all?

Unknown Speaker  03:24
Yeah, I mean, I would, Yeah, I would want to know, what the algorithm is the process and how they, how the Whoever created the the map of the came to their conclusions, you know, show the work, as they say,

Unknown Speaker  03:37
Sure, Definitely.

Unknown Speaker  03:40
Assume that it like a specific process for crime analysis was implemented in your area, either where you live or where you were, such that as us directly impacts you. How important would then be if at all, to have some level of understanding of that algorithm?

Unknown Speaker  03:56
Oh, yeah, I'd want to know about it. I mean, I would participate in it as well, if, you know, if there was an opportunity to do that to be a part of the, you know, the study to because, yeah, if it's directly affecting where I live, and, and work, I want to be a part of it. I want to be, you know, somebody who can,

Unknown Speaker  04:17
But, you know, be productive in the in the community?

Unknown Speaker  04:20
Sure. Yeah. Is there any kind of information about that process or algorithm? You want to know?

Unknown Speaker  04:26
Um,

Unknown Speaker  04:31
yeah, I would, I would want to know,

Unknown Speaker  04:34
Yes, I would want to know, what their data set is and where they're getting the sorry, to where they're getting the information from? Sure. So if it's, you know, police reports, which I Imagine if would be, you know, just where they're getting it, how, what's available to the public how to access that information? Yeah, and sure, I mean, I'd love to be involved in whatever kind of formulas or algorithms are using, I'm not saying I would understand it, you know, what I mean? But,

Unknown Speaker  05:11
but to have the opportunity to learn it.

Unknown Speaker  05:15
That kind of, like leads into the next question, then to is, imagine that there is this process or algorithm in your area where you live or where you work, it directly impacts you, Okay, there's this, this guy, he went to college, or he just, He's a very, like an expert in this algorithm process, not just for the efficacy, the efficiency in the fairness of it, How important would then be if at all, to have some understanding of that algorithm?

Unknown Speaker  05:45
I mean,

Unknown Speaker  05:48
I do perhaps naively, tend to believe, experts. Sure. Just because, you know, I want to believe in the goodness of someone's word, that if they claim to be an expert, and especially if there's evidence and documentation of their expertise, and those who can back them up. Yes, that is, you know, someone who's an authority in the in the field, and I'll most likely believe their data.

Unknown Speaker  06:17
At the same time, though, I mean, anybody who has

Unknown Speaker  06:20
run a report that is, you know, on the level, and they've got all their data collected, should be able to answer any specific questions as well,

Unknown Speaker  06:31
about, about

Unknown Speaker  06:33
where the data comes from. And, you know, in specific cases, don't especially talking about something like crime, because it's not just about numbers. You know, it's it's about, you know, it's about people. It's about, you know, people who are the victims of crime, people who perpetrate the crime. And I mean, even though people who perpetrate crime, you know, bring harm on to other people, they're also still people, you know, I mean, there's a human element involved in in crime and justice and social justice and, and areas of high crime versus poverty and opportunity and resources. So I mean, there's a lot that goes into it. So I mean, just the, you know, the numbers and the analytics of it, I guess, maybe I only give a certain amount of value to that. Because I don't feel like it's the entire It's not the entire study,

Unknown Speaker  07:15
What else would you give value to done?

Unknown Speaker  07:18
Oh, Well, I mean,

Unknown Speaker  07:22
you know, population density, in those areas,

Unknown Speaker  07:27
like,

Unknown Speaker  07:30
median household income,

Unknown Speaker  07:35
You know, the, the, the age of the constituency around there, you know,

Unknown Speaker  07:41
look kind of like demographic demographics.

Unknown Speaker  07:42
Yeah, demographics as

Unknown Speaker  07:44
well, You know, are, are involved. And then a

Unknown Speaker  07:51
lot of it,

Unknown Speaker  07:54
You know, is about resources, resources, being police officers, but resources also being

Unknown Speaker  08:02
opportunities for people, you know,

Unknown Speaker  08:06
definitely

Unknown Speaker  08:07
help with drug addiction, things like that, you know,

Unknown Speaker  08:10
definitely, There was one thing I just wanted to unpack back in there, you were talking about, like, seeing all the data and making sure people understand it such that they can answer specific questions about it. Do you remember like, who those people were, that should answer the question? Well, I

Unknown Speaker  08:27
expect that anyone who is, um,

Unknown Speaker  08:30
you know, in charge of the study, okay to collect the data, and that is, you know, it's the report that's being published and the map that they've created, anybody who, who creates a study like that should be able to answer questions about the data they collected and, and how they got anywhere where they got it and dumb enemy should be fairly transparent about it. Because, you know, for the, for the study to, to be useful. It has to, It has to be believed.

Unknown Speaker  09:01
And So, you know, I mean,

Unknown Speaker  09:05
we

Unknown Speaker  09:07
tend to believe if it's published in like a newspaper, or a scientific journal, You know, through

Unknown Speaker  09:15
journalistic codes, you know,

Unknown Speaker  09:17
there's a lot of checks and balances before it ever gets published. They're supposed to be, you know, so we, as a society, trust that. So To that end, you know, I mean, I'm not doing the checks and balances, but somebody should be before it gets published. And I trust that it is happening. And also, if I were more of like, you know, it's kind of a neighborhood thing. I happen to have the opportunity to question what about that? I mean, they should be able to answer any questions, Clearly, transparently. And hopefully, in a way that's understandable.

Unknown Speaker  09:54
It's kind of funny, because this kind of leads again, into my next question, then to is, do you believe that whether data was sourced legally and fairly, if that impacts the quality of the data?

Unknown Speaker  10:13
I want to say yes, I want to say yes.

Unknown Speaker  10:20
Because I don't know. I mean, I guess if there's crime data that's being kept, under wraps, that someone had to, you know, find a way to get that wasn't completely transparent. I mean,

Unknown Speaker  10:35
I guess it kind of falls under,

Unknown Speaker  10:37
like investigative journalism in that sense, you know, it's like, if you go through a source or something, you get something that source might have leaked it. As long as it's a legit source, you know, what I mean? Like, it's not made up? Incredible. Yeah, that I mean, then the data is, And the data is legit, You know, what I mean? It's still real data, even if it wasn't necessarily legally obtained? From

Unknown Speaker  11:08
what kind of context? Would you come? Don't say, the usage of hacked data?

Unknown Speaker  11:12
Yeah, right. That's tough, that's Sticky, sticky. You know. It's, it's a slippery slope. Because, you know, sometimes, like data can be hacked for, like, you know, the, If there's kind of an unfair, authoritarian sort of regime that is keeping something under wraps that, you know, if the people found out

Unknown Speaker  11:39
could do something with it. And, you know,

Unknown Speaker  11:42
at the same time, I mean, if, if the authoritarians who are in charge, truly believe that this leaked information, could harm society at large, You know, and again, it's like, with great responsibility comes with great power comes great responsibility, you know, what I mean? It's like, it's, it's hard to it guess it depends on the benevolence of those in charge.

Unknown Speaker  12:06
Sure. You know, what I mean? And it's like,

Unknown Speaker  12:09
no, one's in charge of the

Unknown Speaker  12:12
data, or, I mean, we're just talking about, you know, government in large, you know, clinic. I mean, to be

Unknown Speaker  12:18
fair, I mean, police officers who keep the peace, are also they are the agents of the state, You know, what I mean, they're both.

Unknown Speaker  12:27
And so it's about, you know, having that faith

Unknown Speaker  12:30
in the community, that this is what's best.

Unknown Speaker  12:36
And So, when that faith is broken,

Unknown Speaker  12:39
or questioned,

Unknown Speaker  12:41
Then it becomes Do we need to be subversive to get the information that they're withholding from us?

Unknown Speaker  12:48
Or is this information that they're withholding from us? for our own good, You know, it's like, how benevolent is the state for

Unknown Speaker  12:56
the kind of sounds like it's in the eyes of the beholder to like, what they can really use it for? Uh, huh.

Unknown Speaker  13:03
Yeah, well, I mean,

Unknown Speaker  13:06
yeah, maybe? It depends.

Unknown Speaker  13:09
It depends, you know, I think, you know, nothing is black or white, it's, you know, there's, there's different levels of

Unknown Speaker  13:19
things that are being concealed for, for different reasons, whether, you know, some are to, you know, benefit, personal gains. And then that's like, cronyism, and then others might be, you know, to keep the streets safe, you know, to, to keep certain information about things out of the hands of the public, or else, you know, we might have a lot of trouble or, and so it's, But then you're right, it is in the eye of the beholder, because people can view that completely differently. You know, what I mean? It's like, you know, somebody might view something like, Oh, well, you know, the government's not going to, like, let you know how a bomb is created, because then it can be used, but then again, somebody else might be like, Hey, like, I got the freedom to make that bomb to arm myself with that bomb for self defense, you know? I mean, and it's like, okay, you know, so it's like, you're right, it is completely within the eye of the beholder. What information should be made available? What information should? Yeah, you know, like, I don't think all information should be available. Because I think we need I think part of it, it's about keeping us safe, and keeping a community in a society

Unknown Speaker  14:27
and like, you know,

Unknown Speaker  14:30
you know, I mean,

Unknown Speaker  14:31
people need to be able to walk around and feel safe. Exactly.

Unknown Speaker  14:36
Yeah, definitely. Kind of on the topic of keeping everything safe. You're kind of playing like a hypothetical situation. Cool. Yeah. So imagine that the local law enforcement, sable, walkie Police Department came to you and asked you to voluntarily give personal information, maybe more specific location information or demographic information, only for the sole purpose of the law enforcement, making their algorithms and training their data, So much better for crime analysis? What would your response be for this?

Unknown Speaker  15:08
I mean, if they wanted me to participate in a crime analysis study,

Unknown Speaker  15:13
I voluntarily I would probably do that, you know?

Unknown Speaker  15:19
I, yes, Yeah, that'd be fine. I mean, if they just kind of like, showed up and wanted to, like, take down information, that would be a little suspicious, and I would probably, you know, be like, what's going on, you know,

Unknown Speaker  15:32
kind of ring some bells,

Unknown Speaker  15:33
it would ring some bells. And, you know, wonder if my civil liberties were being abused.

Unknown Speaker  15:40
But not if there was just like a mailer that went out? And like, do you choose to volunteer in this study? Or, actually, I mean, I probably if there was, like, some sort of incentive to probably

Unknown Speaker  15:51
the incentive for me to, like, keep the get the community safer.

Unknown Speaker  15:55
All the time, you know, mean, you know, neighborhood meetings and block watches, and the police are

Unknown Speaker  16:00
encouraged and invited to come and be a part of that. And so the, the community organizers, then I'm sure, you know, have that. And I mean, look, I mean, as far as things like, you know, a dress Date of Birth, I mean, these are all this is all public, this debate on public record, you know, what I mean? I mean, nobody's in the phone book anymore. But there's,

Unknown Speaker  16:21
it's out there. It's out there. And I mean, if

Unknown Speaker  16:23
Yeah, I mean, certainly, you know,

Unknown Speaker  16:26
you know, the police would have access to that information.

Unknown Speaker  16:29
So, I mean, yeah, I mean, in like a neighborhood block watch sort of setting. Yeah, that's cool. Because I think that's, like, important to, you know, to mean anything.

Unknown Speaker  16:42
Now, what if I'm kind of playing the other hand, the police came to you, and they kind of required, They said that we need your location services on, It's only for us, we only have this information will kind of be making sure that everyone is safe. And if someone commits a crime or is repeating to commit a crime will be able to get them quicker.

Unknown Speaker  17:01
Would your response be for those? They might track me through my cell phone?

Unknown Speaker  17:04
Yes. like kind of like, like, I find my friends kind of thing or maps always on? No police. I don't like that.

Unknown Speaker  17:11
No, no, I wouldn't do that for a block watch situation, either. Hong Kong.

Unknown Speaker  17:17
I don't know if there's just something about

Unknown Speaker  17:20
being tracked. Okay. You know, and then sure,

Unknown Speaker  17:24
like a privacy thing, you know, you won't feel safe always being watched? Or maybe something else. Maybe? Yeah, they

Unknown Speaker  17:33
wouldn't feel

Unknown Speaker  17:36
alone, I wouldn't feel

Unknown Speaker  17:39
you know, if I always feel watched,

Unknown Speaker  17:42
I'm gonna

Unknown Speaker  17:44
it's gonna affect how I behave and act even alone. Sure. So No, I wouldn't, I wouldn't. I wouldn't participate in

Unknown Speaker  17:55
voluntarily a way that they could track my cell phone.

Unknown Speaker  17:57
Definitely. Just be too hard. I was always on you're just in a weird setting. Feeling it sounds Oh, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  18:04
Yeah. Yeah, I

Unknown Speaker  18:08
you know, in this

Unknown Speaker  18:11
post digital world, you know, one can argue that there is no such true privacy anymore. So whatever privacy I can have, I would like to hold on to and maintain destiny much as possible.

Unknown Speaker  18:23
For

Unknown Speaker  18:25
So then, finally, how would you feel if data from traffic tickets was used in kind of collected by the police in order to systematically allocate police officers along the highway?

Unknown Speaker  18:39
Like, like, set them up in strategic

Unknown Speaker  18:42
places? Where people?

Unknown Speaker  18:46
Yeah, I mean, they can use data however they want, you know, I'm

Unknown Speaker  18:51
Sure.

Unknown Speaker  18:55
They're probably doing that, you know, I mean,

Unknown Speaker  18:59
so that's cool. I mean, it and

Unknown Speaker  19:02
safety on the roads is very important to It's an important thing. And especially that, you know, we know, the prime times, you know, around holidays and whatnot, that, that it gets really

Unknown Speaker  19:15
becomes more of an issue. You know, I mean, personally, you know,

Unknown Speaker  19:19
I'd rather see cops in communities and, and, you know, round where people are living versus around where they're

Unknown Speaker  19:26
driving.

Unknown Speaker  19:28
I mean, they're both important, but if I had to quit,

Unknown Speaker  19:33
You know, a hierarchy on it. I would,

Unknown Speaker  19:37
I would definitely put like, the cops within communities as, as a higher priority than within communities.

Unknown Speaker  19:45
How would you mean,

Unknown Speaker  19:48
on bikes, your neighborhoods, Back in the beat, Okay. Just being a presence and, and an absolute, but I mean, also, you know, shaking people's hands, given away baseball cards, You know,

Unknown Speaker  20:04
you know,

Unknown Speaker  20:07
trying to help the stigma, that they're not always the bad guy,

Unknown Speaker  20:10
trying to help

Unknown Speaker  20:11
but capture

Unknown Speaker  20:14
both, but more importantly, actually trying to help. Because I mean, it's, it's not always about, It shouldn't be about PR shouldn't be about the public's perception and it, and it shouldn't be about having their feelings hurt. If people view them definitely need. When You are the authority, you need to rise above that, you know, it's like, the parent getting upset at the kid. When The kid is mad at the parent, and feeling all like who if you're gonna be mad at me either No, no good help, you know, you're the authority rise above that.

Unknown Speaker  20:53
Don't get, you know, hurt feelings. Lead by example.

Unknown Speaker  21:00
Be the good in the community, that you want it to be when you took that job in the first place. Because I believe that if you have a job where your job is to serve the public, I believe that at some point in your life, you really felt genuine about that, you know, like, I do want to make people safe and comfortable in their own neighborhoods, their own communities.

Unknown Speaker  21:25
Do that find that? You know, where it came from? And bring that back? Because that's what we need to be personable with people. Yeah. Yeah. And so you know, and right, and there's going to be people that are, you know, are just completely either intimidated or completely antagonistic.

Unknown Speaker  21:46
And, again, those are those people you gotta win over, you know what I mean? And don't

Unknown Speaker  21:51
get drawn into the battle that they want.

Unknown Speaker  21:56
Rise above it be that authority figure in, like, the parental way that needs to, you know, be better than that Shown character and

Unknown Speaker  22:05
being a role model. Yeah. Yeah, that's fine. Yeah, that's fine. But I guess that's all the really questions I have to ask. And again, thank you for coming into. Yeah. Cool. That's a lot to read them and


Transcribed by https://otter.ai